Position Title
Work and Family Life Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12752383 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Thursday, August 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Work and Family Life Specialist position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.

1. Which of the following education and/or experience do you have in order to meet the requirements for this position in the 0101 series? NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.
 A. I have a bachelor’s degree or higher in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position (such as a business-related field).
 B. I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 C. I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 D. I do not have any of the above.
2. In addition to meeting the basic requirements, applicants must have specialized experience and/or directly related education. Which of the following do you possess?
 A. 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master’s degree OR master’s OR equivalent degree.
 B. 2 years of specialized experience in delivering education services, developing and evaluating needs assessments, and identifying and prioritizing goals with a focus on human/personal growth and development.
 C. I do not have any of the above.
3. How many years of experience do you have in providing guidance and direction for the development and implementation of effective plans, procedures and tools for the needs of the organization?

 A. I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 3 to 4 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have less than 3 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have no experience as described above.
4. How many years of experience do you have in preparing and conducting briefings/presentations?

 A. I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 3 to 4 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have less than 3 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have no experience as described above.
5. How many years of experience do you have in conducting interviews with management and staff to obtain information about processes, procedures and policies?

 A. I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 3 to 4 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have less than 3 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have no experience as described above.
6. A Work and Family Life Specialist serves as a consultant and instructor, please mark what areas are your specialty.
 A. Career Support (Family Employment) and Volunteer Coordination
 B. Transition Assistance
 C. Relocation Services
 D. Deployment and Individual Augmentee (IA) Support
 E. Personal Financial Management
 F. Life Skills
 G. Exceptional Family Member Program Support
 H. Ombudsman Support
 I. Emergency Response and Emergency Case Management
 J. I do not possess any of the above.
7. Which of the following best describes your experience in gathering data, compiling statistics, implementing and monitoring service provisions, and making recommendations to higher level supervisors at installation, regional and DoD levels?

 A. I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 B. I have 3 to 4 years of experience as described above.
 C. I have less than 3 years of experience as described above.
 D. I have no experience as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected