Position Title
Clinical Lab Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSS-12805563-25-PCA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Wednesday, October 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible; Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2019 to April 2021); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


The following statements address your education and experience as they relate to the Clinical Laboratory Scientist position. Please select the answer that best describes you. Your application package MUST support your answers.


1.
Basic Requirement: English Language Proficiency. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403 (f) Clinical Laboratory Scientist must be proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to perform the duties of this position.

Please indicate your level of English proficiency below.
 I am proficient in both spoken and written English.
 I am not proficient in both spoken and written English.


2.
Basic Requirement: Education. The Clinical Laboratory Scientist must have a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.

NOTE: You will be disqualified if you do not submit your transcripts.

Please indicate your level of education below.
 I have the education required.
 I do not have the education required.


3.
Basic Requirement: Certification. The Lead Clinical Laboratory Scientist must have one of the following: (a) Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT, (b) Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT, or (c) Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.

NOTE: You will be disqualified if you do not submit your certification OR you submit an expired certification.

Please indicate your level of certification below.
 I have the certification required.
 I do not have the certification required.


4.
GS-11 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Experience: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, you must have one year of credible experience equivalent to the next lower level, GS-9;

AND

Candidates must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):
 
Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.  
Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.
 I meet the experience and demonstrated KSAs for the GS-11 level. This experience is reflected in my resume.
 I do not meet the experience and KSAs as described above. I understand I will be disqualified.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙