Position Title
Pharmacist (National Program Manager)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12779391-25-CWB Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 7, 2025 to Monday, August 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
Search 
No matches found
Birmingham, AL
Gardendale, AL
Huntsville, AL
Montgomery, AL
Tuscaloosa, AL
Tuskegee, AL
Phoenix, AZ
Prescott, AZ
Tucson, AZ
Fayetteville, AR
Little Rock, AR
Aurora, CO
Aurora, CO
Colorado Springs, CO
Grand Junction, CO
Loveland, CO
Newington, CT
West Haven, CT
Wilmington, DE
Washington, DC
Bay Pines, FL
Cape Coral, FL
Daytona Beach, FL
Gainesville, FL
Jacksonville, FL
Lake City, FL
Miami, FL
New Port Richey, FL
Orlando, FL
Pensacola, FL
Riverview, FL
Tallahassee, FL
Tamarac, FL
Tampa, FL
The Villages, FL
Viera, FL
West Palm Beach, FL
Augusta, GA
Decatur, GA
Dublin, GA
Boise, ID
Chicago, IL
Danville, IL
Hines, IL
Marion, IL
North Chicago, IL
Peoria, IL
Rockford, IL
Brownsburg, IN
Evansville, IN
Fort Wayne, IN
Indianapolis, IN
Marion, IN
Terre Haute, IN
Des Moines, IA
Iowa City, IA
Leavenworth, KS
Topeka, KS
Wichita, KS
Lexington, KY
Louisville, KY
Baton Rouge, LA
New Orleans, LA
Pineville, LA
Shreveport, LA
Augusta, ME
Baltimore, MD
Perry Point, MD
Bedford, MA
Boston, MA
Brockton, MA
Leeds, MA
Lowell, MA
Springfield, MA
Worcester, MA
Ann Arbor, MI
Battle Creek, MI
Detroit, MI
Iron Mountain, MI
Saginaw, MI
Wyoming, MI
Minneapolis, MN
Saint Cloud, MN
Biloxi, MS
Jackson, MS
Cape Girardeau, MO
Columbia, MO
Kansas City, MO
Poplar Bluff, MO
Saint Louis, MO
Springfield, MO
Billings, MT
Columbia Falls, MT
Fort Harrison, MT
Miles City, MT
Grand Island, NE
Lincoln, NE
Omaha, NE
Las Vegas, NV
North Las Vegas, NV
Reno, NV
Manchester, NH
Brick, NJ
East Orange, NJ
Lyons, NJ
Albuquerque, NM
Albany, NY
Batavia, NY
Bath, NY
Bronx, NY
Brooklyn, NY
Buffalo, NY
Canandaigua, NY
Kings, NY
Montrose, NY
New York County, NY
Northport, NY
Rochester, NY
Syracuse, NY
Wappingers Falls, NY
Asheville, NC
Charlotte, NC
Durham, NC
Fayetteville, NC
Greenville, NC
Kernersville, NC
Salisbury, NC
Wilmington, NC
Fargo, ND
Akron, OH
Canton, OH
Chillicothe, OH
Cincinnati, OH
Cleveland, OH
Columbus, OH
Dayton, OH
Parma, OH
Toledo, OH
Youngstown, OH
Fort Sill, OK
Muskogee, OK
Oklahoma City, OK
Tulsa, OK
Altoona, PA
Aspinwall, PA
Butler, PA
Coatesville, PA
Erie, PA
Lebanon, PA
Philadelphia, PA
Pittsburgh, PA
Wilkes Barre, PA
Providence, RI
Charleston, SC
Columbia, SC
Greenville, SC
Fort Meade, SD
Hot Springs, SD
Sioux Falls, SD
Chattanooga, TN
Memphis, TN
Mountain City, TN
Murfreesboro, TN
Nashville, TN
Amarillo, TX
Austin, TX
Beaumont, TX
Big Spring, TX
Bonham, TX
Corpus Christi, TX
Dallas, TX
El Paso, TX
Fort Worth, TX
Harlingen, TX
Houston, TX
Kerrville, TX
Lubbock, TX
Lufkin, TX
McAllen, TX
San Antonio, TX
Temple, TX
Tyler, TX
Waco, TX
Salt Lake City, UT
White River Junction, VT
Hampton, VA
Richmond, VA
Salem, VA
Beckley, WV
Clarksburg, WV
Huntington, WV
Martinsburg, WV
Appleton, WI
Appleton, WI
Green Bay, WI
Madison, WI
Milwaukee, WI
Tomah, WI
Cheyenne, WY
Sheridan, WY
2. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire will be evaluated to determine if you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other supporting documents. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.

BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Education. Are you a graduate of an Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE) accredited College or School of Pharmacy with a baccalaureate degree in pharmacy (BS Pharmacy) and/or a Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) degree?
 A. Yes
 B. No
1a. Please provide the following Information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree earned:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Licensure. Are you licensed with a full, current and unrestricted license or certified to independently practice pharmacy in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the U.S (i.e. Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2a. Please provide the following Information regarding your Licensure.
Licensure Type:
State Issued:
Date Issued:
Expiration Date:

 
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. English Language Proficiency. Pharmacists must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d).
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Experience. In addition to the basic requirements, you must have 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-13) and must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):

Skill in persuading others and gaining cooperation to accomplish goals.
Ability to effectively communicate orally and in writing regarding complex clinical and technical issues.
Skill in utilizing regulatory and quality standards to develop and implement operational programs.
Skill in managing multiple and diverse people or programs.
Skill in utilizing available resources to support the mission and goals of the organization.
Ability to plan, organize and direct the functions of the pharmacy staff.

Do you meet these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected