Position Title
INDUSTRIAL HYGIENIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12745428-AF-25-156 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 9, 2025 to Wednesday, August 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1. What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)
2. What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)
3. What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.
4. From the categories below, please select your current status.
 A. AOC 1: NG Employees at the 111th ATKW
 B. AOC 2: NG Employees in the 111th Attack Wing (This includes 270 EIS, 201 RHS Det 1, PA ANG HQ Det 2)
 C. AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 D. AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 E. AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 F. AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 G. Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.
5. Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E4-E7 in any branch of military service and willing and able to join the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Do you possess a degree: industrial hygiene; or a branch of engineering, physical science, or life science that included 12 semester hours in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours of courses in any combination of chemistry, physics, engineering, health physics, environmental health, biostatistics, biology, physiology, toxicology, epidemiology, or industrial hygiene? OR Combination of education and experience -- at least 12 semester hours of course work in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours as specified above, plus appropriate experience or additional education? Courses in the history or teaching of chemistry are not acceptable
 A. Yes, I do.
 B. No, I do not.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
2. Do you have at least 36 months experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled? Qualifying experience may have been obtained in field, laboratory, engineering, or other environment if the work provides a means of obtaining a professional knowledge of the theory and application of the principles of industrial hygiene and closely related sciences such as physics and engineering controls. Do you have experience in all of the following areas: the acquisition of quantitative and qualitative data, and the measurement of exposures for a variety of chemical, physical, and biological stresses; the analysis of the data acquired and the prediction of probable effects of exposures on the health and well-being of workers; and the selection and recommendation of appropriate controls, including management, medical, engineering, education or training, and personal protective equipment?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
3. Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 A. Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 B. No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.
4. 4. Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 A. Yes.
 B. No, I haven't.
5. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 A. Yes.
 B. No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected