Position Title
Assistant Director - IT Systems Administration
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
25-DO-12778330 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 8, 2025 to Thursday, August 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 A. I am a current permanent Departmental Offices employee with competitive status.
 B. I am a Departmental Offices employee serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 C. I am an individual eligible for the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 D. I do not meet any of the above criteria.
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
6. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-15: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position is defined as proven proficiency and supportable (as evidenced in the resume) hands-on experience in ALL of the following:
-- Serving in a senior or leadership role responsible for successfully delivering a major IT project; AND
-- Designed and implemented policies or organizational procedures.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have at least one year of the specialized experience stated above at the GS-14 level, or equivalent?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please state the title and dates employed of the position where you acquired the relevant specialized experience so that you may be given proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
3.  In which of the following areas have you developed policies, managed operational activities, and provided oversight? Select all that apply.
 A. Operation of a large-scale Oracle PeopleSoft retirement system.
 B. Maintenance of the system using the full development life-cycle approach.
 C. System risks to the benefit operations.
 D. System upgrades.
 E. Calculations of benefits and payments to annuitants.
 F. System security.
 G. FISMA requirements.
 H. Memorandums of understanding.
 I. Quality review of IT operations.
 J. Service level agreements with service providers.
 K. Annual audits.
 L. Annual reports.
 M. None of the above
4. Please list the dates and reference where you gained the experience above. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Have you performed a full range of supervisory responsibilities for information technology systems administration staff and developmental positions?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Choose all statements that apply to your experience.
 A. Provided guidance in areas necessary to administer the pension payroll system and make benefit payments to annuitants of retirement plans.
 B. Oversaw the implementation of comprehensive retirement system enhancements to ensure program goals are accomplished.
 C. Engaged staff in discussions regarding desired outcomes.
 D. Developed strategies to resolve issues.
 E. Ensured system security meets federal requirements.
 F. Develop and manage the technical architecture for system operations, maintenance, and development, including telecommunications and hardware environment.
 G. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. Have you provided oversight of the system service providers' operations and collaborate to assist in delivering timely and accurate benefit payments to promote responsive customer service?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Which of the following have you done as part of your IT professional work experience? Select all that apply.
 A. Served on a senior advisor group to communicate and coordinate with colleagues.
 B. Evaluated when to present information based on its impact on the office administration operations.
 C. Ensured the development and execution of strategic priorities for information technology systems administration.
 D. Coordinated strategic direction with colleagues to ensure alignment with mission goals.
 E. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. Have you provided leadership and advice to the managers of a retirement system for system operations and development support?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Select the one IT task or activity that best matches your experience.
 A. Performs a variety of information technology reviews, technical research, and assessments.
 B. Consolidates results and preparing user-friendly comparative reports with personnel, program, and financial data.
 C. Supports the goals and objectives of the Office through various analytical and managerial studies.
 D. Prepares briefings, background materials, reports and other written documentation related to studies.
 E. Presents information to senior officials.
 F. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. Have you served as a Contracting Officer Representative (COR) for major system contracts, provide oversight to contractors, and lead joint government and contractor teams?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Select the item(s) that describe your role in managing information technology administration budget.
 A. Monitoring cost agreements with government and commercial service providers and contractors.
 B. Approving multi-year and longer-range work plans, managing overall work to achieve goals.
 C. Providing information to support government financial budgeting and reporting requirements.
 D. Supporting annual financial audits.
 E. Developing and monitoring corrective action plans.
 F. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. Do you have experience addressing issues and secure agreements to improve administration of the retirement programs?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Select the responses that describe your experience in managing major activities and system upgrades.
 A. Prepared requirements.
 B. Established key performance milestones.
 C. Conducted acquisition planning (including developing statements of work and task orders).
 D. Participated in procurement activities.
 E. Directed and monitored the successful and timely achievement of project goals.
 F. Developing and maintaining project plans and schedules.
 G. Conducting cost and risk analyses.
 H. Monitoring and evaluating the work of staff and contractors.
 I. Ensuring that deliverables are complete.
 J. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
15. Have you developed and recommended solutions; prepared briefings, background materials, reports, and other written documentation for internal and external audiences; presented information and collaborated with stakeholders; and developed and ensured execution of requirements, policy objectives, and implementation plans?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. Please list the dates and reference where you gained the experience above. (limit 250 characters)
17. Choose the one statement that best represents your experience with internal controls.
 A. Perform internal control reviews and develops corrective action plans.
 B. Serve as a Senior Advisory Team member for internal control reviews across the organization.
 C. Identify risks to the work processes supporting information technology systems administration and recommends mitigation strategies.
 D. Develop mitigation strategies and standard operating procedures for information technology systems administration functions and manages corrective action plans.
 E. None of the above
18. Select the one statement that best describes your experience consulting with subject matter experts to develop and promote innovative ways to enhance compliance with laws and regulations associated with the retirement programs.
 A. Management policies.
 B. Retirement systems.
 C. Resource management.
 D. Organizational development and improvement.
 E. None of the above
19. Choose the one statement that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting and achieving consensus with various groups and individuals.
 A. I have routinely worked with external contacts to resolve issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships.
 B. I have routinely worked with internal managers to resolve issues and problems, which arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives.
 C. I have routinely educated, advised, or participated in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties.
 D. I have been involved with explaining agency policy and regulations to individuals, providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance.
 E. None of the above
20. Choose the one statement that best represents your approach in advancing team or organization goals.
 A. I am a task-oriented person and perform my work quickly and efficiently.
 B. I am approached often by others and sought for my advice and guidance.
 C. I follow protocol to accomplish my tasks.
 D. I recognize when others need assistance and respond with positive support.
 E. None of the above
21. Choose the one statement that best represents your experience collaborating and fostering positive working relationships with internal and external partners.
 A. I have demonstrated the ability to build constructive relationships with peers, supervisors, managers, and subordinates.
 B. I have taken calculated risks to improve working relationships by improving performance, developing innovations, or achieving challenging goals.
 C. I have demonstrated the ability to build constructive relationships with external partners.
 D. I have taken actions to improve working relationships by evaluating and improving practices to avoid future problems.
 E. None of the above
22. Choose the one statement that best describes your approach when working with a team.
 A. I expect team members to perform work quickly and efficiently with minimal guidance.
 B. I am approachable by others and sought after for my guidance.
 C. I recognize when team members require assistance and respond with positive support.
 D. I look for opportunities to mentor team members and provide assistance.
 E. None of the above
23. Choose all the statement(s) that best describes your most important contribution as a leader.
 A. I have experience to understand and apply the key elements of management.
 B. I have experience to prioritize the tasks of staff and management.
 C. I have experience to foster strong relationships with staff and management.
 D. I have experience to motivate staff in difficult situations.
 E. None of the above
24. Choose the one statement that best describes your experience with project management.
 A. I led a project team and completing projects on budget and on schedule.
 B. I served on a project team.
 C. I advised a project team on issues.
 D. I developed and maintained project documents such as a project charter, project schedule, quality plan, and communication plan.
 E. None of the above
25. Choose the one statement that best describes your experience in oral communication.
 A. I have regularly served as a program representative in dealing with managers and employees within the areas serviced. This included acquiring, clarifying, or exchanging facts, and information needed to complete assignments.
 B. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or conflicting service delivery issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a variety of internal and external individuals or groups.
 C. I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific programmatic issues. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes.
 D. I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in workgroups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement to obtain the desired effect.
 E. None of the above
26. Choose the statement(s) that best describe your communication/briefing skills that you use as a regular part of your job to support office goals.
 A. I have regularly communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, priorities, and results to managers within the organization.
 B. I have regularly communicated information.
 C. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations.
 D. I have briefed senior officials outside the organization.
 E. I have defended organization position with third parties performing oversight.
 F. I have demonstrated ability to foster cooperation and consensus among groups outside my organization to accomplish organization goals.
 G. I have demonstrated ability to build consensus through collaboration from others to obtain information, achieve results, and accomplish goals.
 H. I have served as an authoritative expert on program matters.
 I. None of the above
27. Choose the statement(s) that best describes your problem-solving experience. (Choose all that apply)
 A. I have presented my findings and defended my solutions in writing.
 B. I have presented my findings and defended my solutions orally.
 C. I have discussed my findings with knowledgeable others prior to reaching a conclusion.
 D. I have referred to written or oral guidance in finding a solution.
 E. I have recommended several alternate solutions.
 F. I have proposed solutions in order of preference.
 G. I have pointed out a preferred solution while providing pros and cons.
 H. I have gathered input from affected parties.
 I. I have chartered and lead a project to address an issue.
 J. None of the above
28. Choose the one statement that best describes your writing experience.
 A. I have regularly prepared briefings, background documents, PowerPoint presentations, and other reports.
 B. I have regularly served as a subject matter expert for interpreting and drafting policy for the purpose of resolving specific programmatic issues. This includes documenting legislative and regulatory changes via multi-agency agreements.
 C. I have regularly prepared written reports and developed key program guidance such as strategic plans, program overviews, position papers, and decision documents.
 D. I have regularly gathered input and prepared written reports for an organization for wide-spread distribution.
 E. I have regularly prepared decision documents in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement to obtain the desired effect.
 F. None of the above
29. Choose the one statement that best describes your experience with standard operating procedures, memorandums of understanding, and position papers.
 A. I have regularly researched issues and explain standard operating procedures, memorandums of understanding, and position papers.
 B. I have served as a subject matter expert for interpreting and executing standard operating procedures, memorandums of understanding, and position papers.
 C. I have prepared standard operating procedures, memorandums of understanding, and position papers to address issues for use by multiple audiences.
 D. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected