Position Title
QUALITY ASSURANCE SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12825312-AF-26-010 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 27, 2025 to Saturday, September 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E7?
 Yes. I am an enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E7.
 No. I am not an enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E7.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you posses experience, education, or training involving planning, developing, or administering quality assurance programs (i.e., supporting the development, acquisition, production, use, maintenance, storage, and supply of products concerned with the systematic prevention of defects and non-conformances, the identification of unsatisfactory trends and conditions, and the correction of factors which may contribute to defective items). Experience using computer and automation
systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess at least 1 year experience at the previous lower grade or equivalent experience and education or training involving a thorough knowledge of product or range of products involved, the manufacturing methods and techniques, special processes, test and performance requirements; and skill in developing plans and programs. Experience possessed by an expert in the area of specialization able to give technical direction to otherwise competent workers. Experience determining operations when difficult and questionable phases of malfunctions are found. Experience which required significant and concrete work accomplishments (i.e. special projects, working groups, or detailing assignments) involving interpersonal contacts in a quality assurance or related field. Experience in dealing with management principles and supervisory responsibility for the function required by type of position to be filled and the organization involved.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe a situation where you were required to interpret complex Air Force Instructions, Technical Orders, or other regulations to resolve a technical concern raised by maintenance personnel. What was the nature of the concern, what specific guidance did you utilize, and what was the outcome of your recommendation? What challenges did you encounter in applying the guidance, and how did you overcome them?


4.
The job description emphasizes administering and evaluating the Maintenance Standardization Evaluation Program (MSEP). Describe a time when you identified a significant deficiency in maintenance practices through an inspection or evaluation. What specific inspection technique did you employ (Task Evaluation, Quality Verification Inspection, etc.)? Detail the steps you took to address the deficiency, including any corrective actions implemented and how you ensured sustained improvement.


5.
This position requires performing statistical analysis to identify trends and root causes of maintenance issues. Describe a situation where you used data analysis (e.g., trending, root cause analysis) to investigate a recurring problem in aircraft maintenance. What data sources did you utilize, what analytical methods did you employ, and what recommendations did you make based on your findings? What was the impact of your recommendations?


6.
The job description mentions collaborating with various commanders and supervisors on critical compliance issues. Describe a situation where you had to influence a commander or supervisor to adopt a recommended course of action related to maintenance quality or safety. What approach did you take to communicate your concerns, and how did you address any resistance or differing opinions? What was the final outcome?


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification
based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed
to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from
employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its
supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or
imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed
and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you
are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for
accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4)
realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the
position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙