Position Title
Accounting Technician
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
25-12759481O-TSB-0525-8 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 9, 2025 to Tuesday, July 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (MO1937) 333 W. Pershing Road, Kansas City, MO
 B. (TX2038) 3651 S Ih-35, Austin, TX
 C. (UT0036) 1160 W 1200 S, Ogden, UT
2. How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 A. 1
 B. 2
 C. 3 or more
 D. None
3. Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
4. What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04. (limit 250 characters)
6. What is your current position title?
7. Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 A. Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 B. Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 C. Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 D. Merit Promotion Appraisal
 E. My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 F. Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal
8. Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.
 
9. Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 A. Outstanding
 B. Exceeds Fully Successful
 C. Fully Successful
 D. Minimally Successful
 E. Unacceptable
 F. Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal
10. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above
Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below:

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-08: To be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience using the full range of accounting procedures, techniques, terminology, and regulations to identify erroneous journal entries and perform extensive research to resolve account discrepancies and errors; Experience using automated accounting control system and manual procedures, extensive account structures and systems, the full range of accounting code classifications, subdivisions, associated codes, and documents to process extremely varied transactions. You experience should involve extensive problem solving, and innovative approaches as well as substantial research, complex reconciliation, balancing, and adjusting on unusual transactions and a wide variety of accounts.
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.
1. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:
GS-8 Level: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience using the full range of accounting procedures, techniques, terminology, and regulations to identify erroneous journal entries and perform extensive research to resolve account discrepancies and errors; Experience using automated accounting control system and manual procedures, extensive account structures and systems, the full range of accounting code classifications, subdivisions, associated codes, and documents to process extremely varied transactions. You experience should involve extensive problem solving, and innovative approaches as well as substantial research, complex reconciliation, balancing, and adjusting on unusual transactions and a wide variety of accounts.

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 A. I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above
 B. I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above
2. TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS FOR GS-08: Under merit promotion procedures, applicants must satisfy time-in-grade requirements contained in 5 CFR 300, Subpart F. Time is credited based on calendar time served in a grade, regardless of the number of days or hours worked.

Please select the response that best describes your time-in-grade for the GS-08 level.
 A. I have served at least one year (52 weeks) at the next lower grade (or equivalent) of the position for which I am applying. Note: If the position is classified as a 2-grade interval position (e.g., GS-07/09/11), you will need to have served at least one year (52 weeks) at the next lower grade (or equivalent) in the normal line of progression for the position (e.g., one year at the GS-09 if applying for a GS-11).
 B. I currently, or have previously, occupied a position at or above the grade (or equivalent) of the position for which I am applying.
 C. The position is a GS-05 or below and I have served one year (52 weeks) at a grade no more than two grades below the position for which I am applying.
 D. I am not currently employed as a federal civilian employee and am applying as a VEOA eligible applicant.
 E. I meet one of the exclusions contained in 5 CFR 300.603(b) or 5 CFR 335.103, such as Discretionary Reinstatement.
 F. I have less than one year at the next lower grade (or equivalent) in the normal line of progression of the position for which I am applying and/or none of the above are applicable.
3. In addition to the online application and resume, you must submit a current annual Performance Appraisal. If a revalidated appraisal is used for merit promotion, the supervisor must prepare a narrative for each critical job element that does not have a narrative describing the performance in the appraisal period covered by the rating. Note: If you are a manager or management official, your most recent annual performance appraisal must be used for the overall rating identified.

Did you receive a fully successful, equivalent, or higher rating on your most recent performance appraisal?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I do not have a recent performance appraisal
4. If you answered "I do not have a recent performance appraisal." in the previous question, please indicate why you do not have a current performance appraisal otherwise please enter N/A.

5. Please select the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 A. Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 B. Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 C. Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 D. Merit Promotion Appraisal
 E. Not Ratable/No Performance Appraisal
6. Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal?

 
7. Please select the rating that you achieved on your most recent performance appraisal. For Non-IRS CTAP employees select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance rating.
 A. Outstanding
 B. Exceeds Fully Successful
 C. Fully Successful
 D. Minimally Successful
 E. Unacceptable
 F. Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal
8. Are you currently in the same Business Operating Division and job series as the position for which you are applying to via this announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Which of the following kinds of roles have you held to provide guidance for your workplace?
 A. Lead
 B. Temporary promotion or detail to the position of lead or manager
 C. On-the-job Instructor
 D. Subject Matter Expert (SME)
 E. None of the above
10. Which of the following tasks have you performed to contribute to the workplace environment?
 A. Developed spreadsheets, documents, or databases for reports and analysis (e.g., history sheets, inventory reports, statistical information)
 B. Led or participated in a cross-functional team
 C. Submitted a suggestion that resulted in a change to working conditions (e.g., IRM change, system change)
 D. None of the above
11. Which of the following experience do you have working in Excel?
 A. Creating a spreadsheet
 B. Trouble shooting formulas
 C. Protecting worksheets
 D. Creating macros
 E. None of the above
12. Which of the following programs/systems have you used in your work?
 A. Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS): research taxpayer data and information, transaction codes
 B. Batch Block Tracking System (BBTS): selecting appropriate codes to follow your work on a daily basis. screen unit production cards for time recordation
 C. Remittance Transaction Research (RTR) System: research an imaged payment document from a taxpayer for accuracy
 D. Financial Management Services (FMS) Systems [e.g., Treasury Check Information System (TCIS), Government On-line Accounting Link System (GOALS), Over the Counter Network (OTCNET)]
 E. Redesign Revenue Accounting Control System (RRACS)
 F. Automated Non-Master File (ANMF)
 G. Control D or Electronic Online/Output Network System (EONS)
 H. Electronic Check Processing (ECP)
 I. None of the above
13. Which of the following IRS Forms have you had experience with?
 A. 3996 Tax Revenue Receipts Recap
 B. 3997 Reconciliation of General Ledger Accounts
 C. 4028 or 4028A Service Center Control File Adjustment Record
 D. None of the above
14. Which of the following describes your experience verbally communicating information to others?
 A. Participated in conference calls
 B. Made a formal presentation
 C. Taught a classroom course
 D. Initiated telephone inquiries to other government agencies
 E. Consulted with other business units
 F. None of the above
15. Which of the following describes your highest level of experience communicating information to others in writing?
 A. Composed technical correspondence submitted to upper level management (e.g., Director, National Office)
 B. Composed non-IDRS correspondence sent to internal and external customers
 C. Completed reports submitted to upper level management
 D. Completed reports provided to internal customers
 E. None of the above
16. In conjunction with your Internal Revenue Manual (IRM), which of the following tools do you utilize to ensure the quality and accuracy of your work?
 A. SERP Advanced Research/ Document 6209
 B. Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS)Unit and Unit Security Representative (USR)Database (IUUD)
 C. Consulted with other business units
 D. None of the above
17. Which of the following tasks describes how you have ensured the quality and accuracy of the work performed in your area?
 A. Performed a managerial review.
 B. Worked as an embedded quality reviewer
 C. Performed balancing and reconciliation tasks based on an established schedule
 D. Performed 100% product or program reviews
 E. None of the above
18. Which of the following types of codes have you analyzed?
 A. Transaction Codes or Statute Expiration Codes
 B. Unpostable Codes
 C. From and To Codes (SCFTR)
 D. None of the above
19. Which of the following best describes your experience managing your workload with deadlines?
 A. Prioritizing multiple assignments independently with competing deadlines.
 B. Prioritizing multiple assignments independently with sequential deadlines.
 C. Prioritizing assignments with guidance to meet established deadlines.
 D. NONE OF THE ABOVE
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
20. To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must list the month/year and number of hours worked for experience listed on your resume. Your resume must support your responses to the questions. Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination?

 A. Yes
 B. No
21. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected