Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Recruitment & Placement)
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
ATM-KR-12762886-25-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 11, 2025 to Thursday, July 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the United States Secret Service and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current United States Secret Service employee in the competitive service?

To verify eligibility, as a CURRENT Secret Service Employee you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50); and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, include promotions and with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I understand that the comprehensive background investigation will examine my use of alcohol and illegal drugs.
 A. Yes
 B. No
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
3. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Recruitment & Placement) position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the specialized experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Recruitment and Placement) at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS- 13 grade level in the Federal Service which includes: providing the full range of advisory services and technical guidance to senior management officials on federal laws, regulations, policies, and procedures governing Human Resources Recruitment & Placement Programs; providing authoritative guidance to managers and supervisors on recruitment, staffing, and placement programs and special appointing authorities in the competitive and excepted service; communicating and disseminating information to internal and external stakeholders regarding program status, briefings, analyses, metrics/analytics, and/or reports on human capital programs and issues; and researching and interpreting Federal laws, regulations, policies, and procedures to assist in streamlining processes and developing HR standard operating procedures and guidance, as well as advising senior management on best practices and ways to improve the programs and services administered
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
2.  From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience supervising a team of subordinate employees.
 A. I am responsible for supervising and/or leading a team of individuals, and making recommendations to management on any conflict resolution or disciplinary issues that arise.
 B. I directly supervise and/or lead a team of individuals, guide their day-to-day operations, provide conflict resolution on administrative matters, and make recommendations to management on any disciplinary actions that need to be taken.
 C. I directly supervise and/or lead a team of individuals, and am responsible for making decisions on technical administrative issues, independently provide conflict resolution on all administrative matters, and initiate disciplinary actions on subordinate employees.
 D. None of the above.
3. From the list below select all of the supervisory duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. Responsible for first line supervision of employees.
 D. Developed performance standards and evaluated employees’ work.
 E. Instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 F. Recommended individuals for appointment, promotion, and/or reassignment.
 G. Worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 H. Resolved office conflicts by providing written guidance.
 I. Coached employees on performance issues.
 J. Developed performance improvement plans.
 K. None of the above
4. From the list below select the program areas for which you have supervised or led others performing in the program area(s).
 A. Recruitment
 B. Staffing
 C. Delegated Examining
 D. Excepted Service Hiring
 E. Classification
 F. Pay Administration
 G. Performance Management
 H. Payroll Operations
 I. Strategic Planning
 J. HR Accountability/Audit
 K. Employee Relations
 L. Employee Benefits
 M. Policy Development
 N. HR Systems Development and Maintenance
 O. HR Project Implementation
 P. None of the above
5. From the list below select the response that best describes your level of experience developing and implementing performance standards for employees and evaluating employee performance.
 A. I have limited experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had exposure to this task but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this task across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this task independently across a wide range of situations. I seek guidance in carrying out this task only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this task. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this task on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
6. From the list below select the response that best describes your highest level of experience in supervision attained in a permanent assignment.
 A. I am currently a second level supervisor or have previously held a second level supervisory position responsible for managing several HR programs through subordinate supervisors.
 B. I am currently a first level supervisor or have previously held a first level supervisory position responsible for approving leave, evaluating performance, recommending/granting awards, recommending/issuing performance and conduct actions, and selecting or recommending the selection of individuals for employment.
 C. I am currently a team lead or have previously held a team leader position responsible for assigning and monitoring the work of a team, recommending training and/or awards for others, articulating goals and outcomes and motivating others to achieve them.
 D. I currently or previously have provided guidance and assistance to others performing the same or similar tasks.
 E. I am currently a program manager or have previously held a program manager position responsible for managing program accomplishments through others not directly under my supervision.
 F. I am currently performing or previously performed HR work independently and made recommendations to improve work products and/or processes.
 G. None of the above.
7. From the list below select the response that best describes your level of experience providing guidance to top level managers on the full range of human capital strategies and services.
 A. I have limited experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had exposure to this task but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this task across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this task independently across a wide range of situations. I seek guidance in carrying out this task only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this task on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
8. From the list below select the response that best describes your level of experience serving on committees or working groups changed with human capital policy development and program implementation.
 A. I have limited experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had exposure to this task but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this task across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervisor or guidance.
 D. I have performed this task independently across a wide range of situations. I seek guidance in carrying out this task only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this task. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this task on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
9. From the list below select the reference manuals, documents, and instruction materials which you use to perform your human resources duties.
 A. Title 5 United States Code
 B. Code of Federal Regulations
 C. Guide to Processing Personnel Actions
 D. Pay Administration and Pay Setting policies
 E. Merit Promotion plans
 F. Delegated Examining Operations Handbook
 G. Qualification Standards
 H. VetGuide
 I. Guide to Personnel Data Standards
 J. Guide to Personnel Recordkeeping
 K. None of the above
10. From the list below select the statement that best describes your knowledge of, and experience in, interpreting and applying federal personnel regulations.

 A. Interpret federal regulations dealing with personnel and have applied these regulations as part of my job experience.
 B. I am familiar with federal regulations dealing with personnel but have not applied these regulations as a regular part of my job experience.
 C. I interpret federal regulations dealing with personnel as a regular part of my job experience and have assisted/trained others on their interpretation.
 D. I have written personnel policies and procedures based on my interpretation of federal personnel regulations.
 E. None of the above.
11. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience researching, analyzing legislation, regulation, or other issuance relating to human resources in order to determine the effect on an organization's existing services and operations.
 A. I perform this task as regular part of my job, with close supervision from others.
 B. I independently perform this task as a regular part of my duties.
 C. I perform this task as a regular part of my job. I perform this task independently and others regularly consult me for my expertise.
 D. None of the above.
12. From the list below select the response that best describes your level of experience handling complex issues affecting the full range of human resource management disciplines.
 A. I have limited experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had exposure to this task but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this task across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this task independently across a wide range of situations. I seek guidance in carrying out this task only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this task. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this task on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
13. From the list below select the statement that best describes the extent of your experience in reporting to higher level officials on program status and problems that require resolution or changes to plans and schedules.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, both formally and informally, on program status and problems requiring changes to plans and schedules.
 C. I have given formal briefings or prepared formal written reports to higher level officials in my organization regarding program status and problems requiring changes to plans and schedules, and I have provided concrete recommendations for resolving the problems.
 D. I have prepared formal written reports and conducted presentations to higher level officials within and outside of my organization regarding program status, including recommendations for resolving programs or changing plans and schedules to prevent future problems.
14. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience developing, evaluating and providing recommendations to enhance the effectiveness of operations, practices, and procedures.
 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have participated in brainstorming sessions seeming to identity ways to enhance the effectiveness of operations, practices, and procedures.
 C. I have independently developed and presented new operations, practices, and procedures to promote more efficient and effective program operations.
 D. I have led a workgroup charged with evaluating operations, practices, and procedures, and made formal recommendations to superiors of our findings.
15. From the list below select the response that best reflects your experience as it pertains to retaining composure under stressful situations when dealing with a variety of people.
 A. My previous positions have not required me to deal with a variety of people in stressful situations.
 B. I have had limited experience in handling stressful situations which dealt with a variety of people. When I did, my supervisor or senior employee was there to assist me in these situations.
 C. I have served in a variety of positions where I must maintain composure in stressful situations dealing with a variety of people. I was able to do this without the review or intervention of my supervisor or senior level person.
 D. None of the above.
16. From the list below select the statement that best describes your ability to communicate verbally with all levels of employees and management in order to obtain and provide information.
 A. I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; or participated in debate or speech programs; or explained non-technical procedures to customers.
 B. I have notified supervisors, managers, or offices orally of decisions, problems, or further actions needed; or I have explained the organization's programs or services to others.
 C. I have given presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings, and acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 D. I have given presentations at professional meetings and conferences external to my agency. I have discussed and explained technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
 E. None of the above
17. From the list below select the response(s) that best reflect your experience as it pertains to presentation/communication skills.
 A. Communicated technical information to internal or external audiences.
 B. Persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action.
 C. Interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information.
 D. Conducted training sessions with diverse audiences with different levels of comprehension.
 E. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis.
 F. None of the above
18. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience expressing information to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information; making clear and convincing oral presentations; listening to others, attending to nonverbal cues, and responding appropriately.
 A. I communicate, explain, or defend complex ideas or information clearly and adapt to the audience’s level of knowledge. My thoughts are extremely well organized. I actively listen to others and clarify communications.
 B. I communicate or explain moderately complex ideas or information clearly. My thoughts are well organized. I listen to others, and recognize potential miscommunications.
 C. I communicate basic ideas or information clearly. My thoughts are fairly well organized. I listen to others and respond accordingly.
 D. None of the above.
19. From the list below select the response that best describes your level of experience developing and implementing performance standards for employees and evaluating employee performance.
 A. I have limited experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had exposure to this task but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this task across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this task independently across a wide range of situations. I seek guidance in carrying out this task only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this task. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this task on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
20. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience examining complex functions and work processes to identify, analyze, and recommend solutions to deficiencies, imbalance or weaknesses in training requires or projections.
 A. I have limited experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had exposure to this task but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this task across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this task independently across a wide range of situations. I seek guidance in carrying out this task only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this task. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this task on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work.
21. From the list below select the response that best describes your level of experience conducting studies and analyses for the assessment and resolution of substantive operating and/or policy issues related to human capital management.
 A. I have limited experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had exposure to this task but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this task across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this task independently across a wide range of situations. I seek guidance in carrying out this task only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this task. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this task on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work.
22. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected