Position Title
LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Transportation Command
Announcement Number
USTC-25-12771406-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 25, 2025 to Sunday, August 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Logistics Management Specialist position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Read all the statements below completely before making your selection.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-12) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Developing and assessing courses of actions affecting bulk fuel equities; providing vision, direction, oversight, and perspective on all major bulk fuel policy issues, strategic planning, and leadership initiatives; collecting, analyzing, and providing recommendations to effectively assess and validate Operational Plans (OPLAN) requirements.
 B. I do not possess the required experience to qualify for this position.
2. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience conducting strategic dialogue with the supported Combatant Command (CCMD) planners (select all that apply):

 A. Processed and provided near real-time planning factors.
 B. Provided vision, direction, oversight, and perspective on all major bulk fuel policy issues, strategic planning, and leadership initiatives.
 C. Collaborated with key military and civilian stakeholders to ensure bulk fuel strategies are incorporated into planning and aligned with strategic goals, plans and objectives.
 D. Developed concepts of support addressing supply, maintenance, and deployment.
 E. Establish and maintain regular communications through weekly activity reports, meetings, and conferences.
 F. Developed concepts of support addressing distribution, health services, engineering, logistic services, and operational contract support.
 G. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
3. I have developed briefings, point papers, and presentations for senior leaders on bulk fuel-related initiatives, strategies, and plans.

 A. Yes, and it is clearly reflected in my resume.
 B. No, I do not have this experience.
4. I have served as a representative and spokesperson in communicating program and project matters.

 A. Yes, and it is clearly reflected in my resume.
 B. No, I have not had this experience.
5. I have served as an advisor for global bulk fuel management and delivery within a Combatant Command (CCMD).

 A. Yes, and it is clearly reflected in my resume.
 B. No, I have not had this experience.
6. From the following responses, select the one that BEST describes your experience leading and coordinating ongoing strategic, operational, and tactical-level bulk fuel planning and posture to guide operational programming and overseeing implementation of Global Bulk Fuel plans:

 A. This is a regular part of a job. I perform this duty independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 B. I have participated in coordinating ongoing strategic, operational, and tactical-level bulk fuel planning and posture to guide operational programming and overseeing implementation of GBF plans at all levels.
 C. I have not had experience in this area.
 D. I have routinely led and coordinated ongoing strategic, operational, and tactical level bulk fuel planning and posture to guide operational programming and overseen implementation. I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 E. I have experience in this area under close supervision by my supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
7. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience as Global Bulk Fuel Management & Delivery Single Manager (select all that apply):

 A. I have developed and assessed course of actions affecting bulk fuel equities within the designated CCMD.
 B. I have represented Single Manager bulk fuel equities within designated CCMD battle rhythm events.
 C. I have provided vision, direction, oversight, and perspective on bulk fuel policy issues, strategic planning, and leadership initiatives.
 D. I have collaborated with key military and civilian stakeholders to ensure bulk fuel strategies are incorporated into planning and aligned with strategic goals, plans and objectives.
 E. I have worked collaboratively with key offices CCMD-wide, subordinate units, and external agencies to develop, assess and refine bulk fuel equities.
 F. I have developed effective guidance and strategies to the CCMD components and subordinate units on developing and tracking bulk fuel feasibility metrics implementation of best practices, and bulk fuel distribution.
 G. I have created clear, resource-informed, action plans in a manner that prompts senior leader decision making and bolsters the Joint Petroleum Enterprise with a focus on support to the CCMD bulk fuel requirements.
 H. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
8. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience establishing and guiding a CCMD Petroleum Integration Cell (PIC) in collaboration with the Joint Petroleum Officer and DLA-Energy Liaison.

 A. I have clarified and refined bulk fuel requirements in preparation for validation by the CCMD Joint Petroleum Officer (JPO) and eventual sourcing by DLA.
 B. I have monitored and tracked inter-theater bulk fuel movements and ensured they are synchronized with intra-theater transportation to meet prioritized theater requirements at the point of need.
 C. I have participated in hand-off of fuel from inter-theater transportation assets with intra-theater transportation assets.
 D. I have participated in setting the conditions for the arrival of the Fuel Integration Team (FIT) into the CCMD?s PIC.
 E. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
9. I have experience ensuring that assigned subject-area programs are developed and executed in accordance with federal law, DoD policy, CCMD guidance, and local standard operating procedures.

 A. Yes, and it is clearly reflected in my resume.
 B. No, I have not had this experience.
10. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience serving as authoritative advisor for bulk fuel planning (select all that apply):

 A. Develops course of actions, assessed CCMD fuels plans, and incorporated bulk fuel equities in DoD and CCMD war games, exercises, and training.
 B. Develops and maintains regional sustainment/retrograde/theater distribution plans.
 C. Collects, analyzes, and provides recommendations to effectively assess and validate Operational Plans (OPLAN) requirements.
 D. Translates strategic guidance and direction into OPLANs and Operations Orders (OPORDs) for contingency or crisis action response.
 E. Collects, analyzes, and provides recommendations to assess and validate the Bulk Fuel Feasibility Assessment, Transportation Feasibility Analysis, CCMD Theater Distribution Plans, and Logistics Support Analysis
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
11. I have developed goals to measure performance and outcomes in a manner that promotes enhanced fuel distribution across the Joint Petroleum Enterprise.

 A. Yes, and it is clearly reflected in my resume.
 B. No, I have not had this experience.
12. I have coordinated with CCMD on their preparations for the Installation Planning and Review Board (IPRB), Joint Materiel Priorities and Allocation Board (JMPAB), Global Posture Executive Council (GPEC), and Logistics Functional Capabilities Board (LFCB).

 A. Yes, and it is clearly reflected in my resume.
 B. No, I have not had this experience.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected