Position Title
Director of Planning and Risk
Agency
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
Announcement Number
FRTIB-25-SES-035-12785705 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently serving in a career Senior Executive Service appointment, previously served in a career Senior Executive Service appointment for at least one year (probationary period completed) with reinstatement eligibility, or completed an OPM-certified Senior Executive Service Candidate Development Program and your executive core qualifications have been previously certified by an OPM Qualifications Review Board? 

If eligible, 
Current career SES members and former career SES members with reinstatement eligibility must include a copy of the specific SF-50 documenting your SES career appointment without time limitation.
Former career SES members with reinstatement eligibility must also submit a federal agency document which confirms your successful completion of a SES probationary period. (Note: a second SF-50 dated more than a year after SES career conversion or appointment, which documents continued unlimited assignment to the same SES position, will suffice to document completion of the SES probationary period).
SES CDP graduates must include a copy of your OPM CDP graduation certificate or other proof that your ECQs have been QRB certified.



 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. As a basic requirement for entry into this Senior Executive Service position, applicants must provide evidence of progressively responsible leadership experience that is indicative of senior executive level managerial capability and directly related to the skills and abilities outlined under Mandatory Technical Qualifications and Executive Core Qualifications. Experience of this nature will have been gained at or above the GS-15 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent.

Please select the answer that best describes your level of experience.
 A. I have demonstrated senior level leadership experience at or above the GS-15 level as described above.
 B. I am currently a Senior Executive within the Federal government.
 C. I have formerly held a Senior Executive position within the Federal government.
 D. I have demonstrated equivalent experience in a senior leadership position in a corporate, private industry, or other non-Federal organization as described above.
 E. I do not have the experience as described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. I have experience and skill in leading an enterprise risk management program and developing related policies.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2a. Briefly describe where in your resume this experience is demonstrated.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. I have experience in leading strategic planning efforts and strategic planning best practices.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3a. Breifly describe where in your resume this experience is demonstrated.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. OPM must authorize any employment offers made to current or former (within the last 5 years) political Schedule A, Schedule C, or Non-career SES employees in the executive branch.  Have you held any of these appointments within the last five years?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Have you reviewed the Required Documents section of this vacancy announcement? Failure to provide any of the required documentation when requested will result in lost consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Have you been certified by the Office of Personnel Management's Qualifications Review Board for Senior Executive Service certification?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected