Position Title
Museum Technician (History)
Agency
National Archives and Records Administration
Announcement Number
DE-12779959-25-AM Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Tuesday, September 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Where did you learn about this National Archives and Records Administration job opportunity?
--Select-- 
--Select--
USAJOBS website
Community Organization
Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
Friend/Relative/Colleague
Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
Newspaper
School, College, Counselor, Career Center
Vacancy Announcement Posting
Virtual Open House/Workshop
Professional Organization
Radio/TV
LinkedIn
Twitter
Other
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-7: You must have at least one year of experience at the GS-6 level or equivalent that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Inventory control consisting of records, reports and resolving inventory anomalies according to established SOPs and or procedures. AND
Following established procedures to ensure objects of historical or cultural significance are protected from environmental hazards, such as extreme temperature/humidity, mold, damaging lighting conditions, or pests
OR
You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows: One full academic year of graduate level education where it is directly related to the work of the position.
OR
Successful completion of a combination of education and experience as described above. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent.

Undergraduate and Graduate Education:  Related course work is required. Related fields of study include art, history, museum studies, scientific subjects, or other courses related to the position to be filled.
1. For the GS-07, select the response below that best describes your experience and/or education.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-6 grade level as described above.
 B. I have successfully completed at least 1 full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours, 27 quarter hours or equivalent) in an accredited college or university. (Related fields of study include art, history, museum studies, scientific subjects, or other courses related to the position to be filled.)"
 C. I have successfully completed a combination of education and experience as described above. (The total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement equals at least 100 percent.)"
 D. I do not have the experience and/or education as described in the above statements.
2. Select each of the following for which you have demonstrated experience regarding the safe handling and storage of museum objects.

 A. Unpack objects, perform limited cleaning, and identify preservation needs.
 B. Repack objects with care, assure complete labeling that preserves data associated with the objects.
 C. Identify and label objects by matching documentation field labels,notes, etc. with the objects.
 D. Prepare objects for storage or display.
 E. None of the above.
3. Select each of the following for which you have demonstrated experience with documentation and tracking of museum collections.
 A. Enter cataloging data into a collections management system or database.
 B. Prepare, maintain, and organize manual and automated curatorial records including accession records, catalog records, and donation forms.
 C. File records in accession folders and affix catalog numbers to objects.
 D. Perform routine research for catalog records, exhibits, and other purposes as assigned.
 E. Maintain and update catalogs and databases.
 F. I do not have experience regarding the safe handling and storage of museum objects.
4. Select the response(s) which best describes your experience maintaining the care of museum objects:
 A. Follow museum maintenance and housekeeping schedules .
 B. Perform routine cleaning of objects as directed and according to established standards.
 C. Assist in scheduled cleaning of museum collections storage.
 D. Follow applicable museum environmental monitoring program.
 E. Assist with the installation, repair, and rehabilitation of exhibit.
 F. None of the above.
5. Please select all of the functions you have performed:
 A. Assist and monitor all visitors to museum facility as requested/needed, including researchers using the collection.
 B. Use archives and museum collection to provide answers to research requests from outside researchers and from staff. Refer unusual requests to the supervisor.
 C. Perform a variety of clerical operations in support of the curatorial operation. This may include, for example, handling office records and correspondence; inventorying and ordering supplies; and managing computer equipment, including hardware, software, and databases.
 D. Conduct inventory of museum objects and accessions.
 E. Create and maintain accession, loan, and deaccession records for object and archival collections.
 F. Coordinate inprocessing, cataloging, inventory, storage and retrieval of museum collections and train students and/or volunteers in these procedures.
 G. None of the above.
6. Select the response(s) below you have demonstrated experience with.
 A. Use digital cameras to document museum objects and storage facilities.
 B. Use professional grade museum cataloging software.
 C. Prepare and/or update data using computer based spreadsheet software (such as Microsoft Excel).
 D. Use dataloggers and appropriate software to track environmental conditions in collections facilities.
 E. None of the above.
7. Select one of the following that best describes your mastery of TMS or other museum database software?
 A. I have no knowledge or experience with TMS or other museum database software.
 B. I can use TMS or other museum database software to perform basic functions, such as object search and data entry.
 C. I can use TMS or other museum database software to perform all of the above, plus intermediate functions, such as attaching images, change location, and advanced searches.
 D. I can use TMS or other museum database software to perform all of the above, plus advanced functions, such as create packets, create loans, and create exhibits.
 E. I can use TMS or other museum database software to perform all of the above, plus very advanced functions such as shipping, inventory, e-museum, and creating original reports using Crystal Reports.
8. Which of the following describes your experience identifying problems related to the operation or management of a museum?
 A. Identify and resolve problems with museum registration and accountability.
 B. Identify and improve existing catalog records issues by standardization and description enhancement.
 C. Identify condition and storage issues in collections.
 D. Make recommendations for treatment of collection storage issues based on best practice and object preservation.
 E. None of the above.
9. With which of the following do you have experience related to performing research to obtain information on historical objects?
 A. I have conducted research to obtain information, documented research findings and provided briefings and/or summaries of relevant information in writing.
 B. I have prepared temporary or web based museum exhibits requiring research, text writing, and selection of illustrations and objects.
 C. I have researched and located information related to museum objects from records and information systems.
 D. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
10. Do you have demonstrated experience properly storing museum objects in museum standard cases, including the construction of custom-made boxes and other art storage cases?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have demonstrated experience reviewing object processing, cataloging, rehousing, and data entry products using best museum?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Have you identified and catalogued objects and specimens from various disciplines?

 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Select the one response that best describes your experience communicating orally with various levels of employees and management.
 A. I have greeted visitors, or relayed messages, or answered and redirected telephone calls.
 B. I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information and explained non-technical procedures to others.
 C. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members).
 D. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 E. None of the above.
14. Please choose the answers below that indicate your experience in working with others as part of a team to accomplish goals. Select all that apply.
 A. I have promoted, developed and maintained good working relationships with team members or coworkers.
 B. I have persuaded others to take a particular course of action or to accept alternative viewpoints.
 C. I have presented observations or recommendations within a group.
 D. I have collaborated with others or worked on teams to accomplish activities.
 E. I have promoted, developed, and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups outside of the organization.
 F. I have conferred with others to obtain or verify information documentation.
 G. None of the above.
15. For which purposes or goals have you prepared written materials? Select all that apply.
 A. I have tailored the language and tone of my writing to a technical audience.
 B. I have tailored the language and tone of my writing to a non-technical audience.
 C. I have synthesized multiple ideas into a cohesive and concise document.
 D. I have followed standardized procedures to structure my writing.
 E. I have included accurate reference citations.
 F. I have received recognition from management or customers on the quality of my writing.
 G. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected