Position Title
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIST
Agency
U.S. International Trade Commission
Announcement Number
MP-25-035-JLM Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Thursday, September 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy

• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND

• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
2. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
12
13
Assessment 1
1. Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? The answer to this question is required.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you meet one of the basic requirements below?

 A. Degree: Economics, that includes at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus.
 B. Combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in economics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. Yes, I have the education and/or combination of education and experience required.
 D. No, I do not have the required education and/or combination of education and experience.
3. Applicants for the GS-09 level must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level obtained in the Federal service or in the private or non-profit sector. Specialized Experience that demonstrated the ability to perform the functions of the position to be filled and that provided requisite knowledge of any of the following: (i) The production of goods and services in international trade; (ii)The technical and economic factors influencing international trade and competitiveness; (iii) Commodity and trade data collection methods and analytical techniques; and (iv) U.S. trade laws, agreements, and policies regulating international commerce.

OR
2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree;

OR
master's or equivalent graduate degree.

 A. Yes, I possess the required specialized experience or education as stated above, and if qualifying based on possession two years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree, I have provided a copy of my transcript as proof.
 B. No, I do not have the specialized experience as described above.
4. Applicants for the GS-11 level must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level obtained in the Federal service or in the private or non-profit sector. Specialized experience would include 1 or more of: (i) as related to advanced technology and machinery sectors, knowledge of trade laws and regulations, current trade and market conditions, factors of competitiveness in the United States and leading global markets; (ii) identifying and obtaining economic and trade information, and in processing and manipulating data; (iii) preparing a variety of written materials on complex topics and submitting written materials to others for editorial and technical review, as a demonstration of written communication skills; and (iv) planning, designing, carrying out, and leading projects, studies, or other work, as part of a team.
OR
3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree
OR
Possession of a PhD degree, which included the curriculum listed under question one. A copy of your transcript is required to show you meet this requirement.

 A. Yes, I possess the required specialized experience or education as stated above, and if qualifying based on possession of a PhD or other graduate degree, I have provided a copy of my transcript as proof.
 B. No, I do not have the specialized experience as described above.
5. Applicants for the GS-12 level must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 obtained in the Federal service or in the private or non-profit sector. Specialized experience would include 2 or more of: (i) as related to advanced technology and machinery sectors, knowledge of trade laws and regulations, current trade and market conditions, factors of competitiveness in the United States and leading global markets; (ii) identifying and obtaining economic and trade information, and in processing and manipulating data; (iii) preparing a variety of written materials on complex topics and submitting written materials to others for editorial and technical review, as a demonstration of written communication skills; and (iv) planning, designing, carrying out, and leading projects, studies, or other work, as part of a team.

 A. Yes, I have the required specialized experience as described above.
 B. No, I do not have the specialized experience as described above.
6. Applicants for the GS-13 level must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level obtained in the Federal service or in the private or non-profit sector. Specialized experience would include 3 or more of: (i) as related to advanced technology and machinery sectors, knowledge of trade laws and regulations, current trade and market conditions, factors of competitiveness in the United States and leading global markets; (ii) identifying and obtaining economic and trade information, and in processing and manipulating data; (iii) preparing a variety of written materials on complex topics and submitting written materials to others for editorial and technical review, as a demonstration of written communication skills; and (iv) planning, designing, carrying out, and leading projects, studies, or other work, as part of a team.

 A. Yes, I have the required specialized experience as described above.
 B. No, I do not have the specialized experience as described above.
7. I certify, that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in any part of this application, or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). In addition, my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify that the information provided in this application and questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected