Position Title
Mission Support Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO-SMP-12793229-GAP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Friday, September 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is currently on Active Duty?

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority. 

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit official supporting documentation (i.e. copy of the Active Duty orders or statement of service)

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit all supporting documents identified on the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Member 4 copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.). For information on how to request veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000   or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/ 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans Resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4.

The following question applies to a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service.  If you are not a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service, select No.   

Are you a current federal civilian employee with the Federal government in a permanent competitive service position? 

To verify your eligibility as indicated above, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting your current permanent position in the competitive service 

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2)  
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1)  

NOTE:  If you are a current federal employee in an excepted service position or other than permanent competitive service position then you are not eligible under this current federal employee eligibility.  If you have prior permanent competitive service with the federal government, you may be eligible as a reinstatement applicant if the announcement is open to former federal employees. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

Are you a current or former land management employee eligible to apply under The Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act as described in 5 U.S.C 9602, who meets the conditions below?  

Hired for a temporary or term position under a competitive appointment.  

Served one or more temporary or term appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years.  

Performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service.  

If no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following: 

Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 reflecting your time limited status. 

Additional Standard Form 50s may be required to demonstrate a service period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years.  

Your most recent performance appraisal demonstrating fully successful, or equivalent.  See Additional Information section of vacancy announcement for further details.    

If you have had multiple periods of time-limited employment, you must show proof of acceptable levels of employment for each of the periods of employment used to satisfy the 24-month requirement.  

 A. Yes
 B. No
7.

Instruction: As a federal competitive service employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current federal employee, have you held a permanent position in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. To verify your eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee with promotion potential, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) that reflect:   

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2); AND 
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1); OR 
Position Occupied (Box 34): Excepted service (2); when in another merit system which OPM has an interchange; AND 
Promotion Potential equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced. 
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.

You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. For information on how to request your veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000  or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale or I am applying
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am not a current or former federal employee and am applying as a VEOA OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
4. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
6. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
8. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
9. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
10. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS 7 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that includes: Analyzing and reconciling discrepancies or inconsistencies; Preparing budget, personnel action requests and updating budget spreadsheet; Ensuring compliance with applicable regulations and procedures; Conducting new employee orientation; Analyzing workflow and office procedures.
 B. I have successfully completed one year (or more) of full-time graduate education or a Master’s (or higher) degree from an accredited college or university.  I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have successfully completed all the requirements for a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university and claim eligibility for superior academic achievement (SAA) based on one of the following: (1) class standing, (2) grade-point average, or (3) honor society membership. (See qualifications section in the job opportunity announcement for more information.) I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 E. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education described above.
2. Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS 9 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes; Providing guidance and technical advice in a variety of mission support functional areas for a Field Office or Port of Entry; Analyzing results and recommending changes including those to current processes and/or long-standing policies to ensure the efficient and effective productivity of the administrative operations in different areas of the organization; Determining the most effective technical approaches to the problem using standard regulations and procedures; Verifying and assessing relevant facts from several sources and examining documentation; Ensuring compliance with applicable regulations and procedures.
 B. I have successfully completed two or more years of full-time graduate education or a Master's (or higher) degree from an accredited college or university or an LL.B. or J.D that demonstrates the skills necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Indicate the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts to identify solutions.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 D. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 E. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience developing tracking/filing systems for incoming and outgoing documents.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have received training in developing tracking/filing systems for incoming and outgoing documents.
 C. I have assisted others in developing tracking/filing systems for incoming and outgoing documents.
 D. I have developed tracking/filing systems for incoming and outgoing documents for my work unit.
 E. I have developed tracking/filing systems for incoming and outgoing documents for different divisions in my organization. I have tailored the systems to each office/division's needs.
5. Select the choice which best describes how you have typically planned and organized your work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed the schedule, goals, and guidelines prepared by my supervisor.
 C. I have independently set goals and priorities for my own work across multiple projects to ensure that my deadlines were met.
 D. I have set goals and priorities for my own work and coordinated activities and timelines with others across multiple projects to ensure that project goals and deadlines were met.
 E. I have set project requirements and priorities for a work team, developed strategies to achieve goals, and coordinated work requirements, resources, and personnel within the team.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience using standard Microsoft Office applications (e.g., Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint) to develop and maintain various reports.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have received training in standard computer tools (e.g., Microsoft Office Suite) to develop and maintain various reports using word processing documents, PowerPoint presentations, and spreadsheets.
 C. I have used standard Microsoft Office applications (e.g., Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint) to edit or update existing reports or presentations.
 D. I have used standard Microsoft Office applications (e.g., Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint) to edit, update, and develop new reports or documents to convey information when no template was available.
7. Have you been a purchase card holder or conducted the duties of a purchase card holder (i.e., executed purchases, reconciled monthly statements, and maintained required documentation)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Indicate the extent of your experience coordinating mission support/administrative duties (i.e., budget, inventory, property, fleet, human resources, workers' compensation, payroll, travel) in your organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in coordinating mission support/administrative duties (i.e., budget, inventory, property, fleet, human resources, workers' compensation, payroll, travel) for my work unit.
 C. I have independently coordinated mission support/administrative duties (i.e., budget, inventory, property, fleet, human resources, workers' compensation, payroll, travel) for my department.
 D. I have coordinated the mission support/administrative duties (i.e., budget, inventory, property, fleet, human resources, workers' compensation, payroll, travel) across different offices/departments.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience maintaining relationships with internal and external stakeholders while providing advice and guidance.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided advice and guidance, both orally and in writing, to employees in my work unit.
 C. I have maintained relationships with people in other departments and provided advice and guidance, both orally and in writing, when appropriate.
 D. I have maintained relationships with internal and external stakeholders and provided advice and guidance, both orally and in writing. When appropriate, I have adapted my communications to the level of the target audience.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience collecting, reviewing, amending, and certifying Time and Attendance for employees.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have received training in collecting, reviewing, amending, and certifying Time and Attendance for employees in accordance with the proper procedure.
 C. I have collected, reviewed, and amended Time and Attendance for employees in accordance with the proper procedure as part of my normal duties.
 D. I have served as a supervisor whose duties included collecting, reviewing, amending, and certifying Time and Attendance in accordance with the proper procedure.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience using databases and automated systems to prepare reports (i.e., staffing, budget, SAP reports).

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have received training on databases and automated systems used in my organization to prepare reports (i.e., staffing or budget reports), but have not had the opportunity to apply this on the job.
 C. I have used databases and automated systems to prepare simple reports (i.e., staffing or travel card reports).
 D. I have used databases and automated systems to prepare complex reports (i.e., Inventory, Budget, Fleet, Payroll reports).
12. Indicate the extent of your experience assisting the local property officer in reconciling inventory per your organization's guidelines.

 A. I have had no experience performing this task.
 B. I have confirmed property in my possession to my local property officer when asked.
 C. I have assisted the local property officer, unofficially, in locating equipment listed in my office's inventory.
 D. As part of my official duties, I have assisted the local property officer by conducting a first-level review of property in my office's inventory (e.g., as an inventory taker).
 E. I have served as a local property officer and have reconciled inventory per my organization's guidelines.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience interpreting and applying organizational directives and guidelines related to communications, administration, personnel management, and facilities.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have interpreted and applied organizational directives and other guidelines related to communications, administration, personnel management, and facilities under the direction of a senior employee.
 C. I have interpreted and applied organizational directives and other guidelines related to communications, administration, personnel management, and facilities to my own work.
 D. I have interpreted and applied organizational directives and other guidelines related to communications, administration, personnel management, and facilities for my work unit.
 E. I have served as a team lead or manager ensuring organizational directives and guidelines related to communications, administration, personnel management, and facilities were properly interpreted and applied.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience performing physical inventory and reporting inventory status.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have completed training related to physical inventory and reporting but have not applied this in m work.
 C. I have assisted in performing physical inventory and reporting inventory status in accordance with property management principles.
 D. I have independently performed physical inventory and reported the inventory status to include missing items, and items not listed on the station inventory in accordance with property management principles.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience following procedures to receive, transfer, and excess equipment.

 A. I have had no experience performing this task.
 B. I have followed my organization's procedures for receiving and transferring equipment with assistance from a senior employee.
 C. I have independently followed my organization's procedures for receiving and transferring equipment.
 D. I have served as a property officer in charge of purchasing, receiving, transferring, and excessing equipment as needed.
16. Do you have experience conducting property or financial management using SAP or other electronic databases/data management systems?

 A. Yes
 B. No
17. Indicate the extent of your experience providing support in budget processes using your knowledge of procurement practices.

 A. I have had no experience performing this task.
 B. I have provided basic support to my work unit in budget processes using my knowledge of procurement practices (e.g., review bills).
 C. I provided support to my organization in budget processes as part of my normal duties. I used my knowledge of procurement practices to ensure the correct procedures were followed.
 D. I have served as a supervisor overseeing budget processes for my organization. I have used my knowledge of procurement practices to ensure no appropriations laws were broken.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected