Position Title
Optometrist (Low Vision) - EDRP Authorized
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12803213-25-JG Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you currently employed by a U.S. federal agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?  This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service. This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
1. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Basic Requirements for the position of Optometrist (Low Vision), VP-0662 - The following section is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS OR PROVIDE THE NECESSARY INFORMATION MAY RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.

To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional requirements (if applicable) listed in the job announcement. 

Please choose the best (most appropriate) answer to determine your eligibility for this position.
1. Education: Do you possess a degree of doctor of optometry resulting from a course of education in optometry?  

The degree must have been obtained from one of the schools or colleges approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the year in which the course of study was completed.  Approved schools are:
   (1) United States and Canadian schools or colleges of optometry listed as accredited by the Council on
        Optometric Education of the American Optometric Association, in the list published for the year in which
        the course of study was completed.
   (2) Schools (including foreign schools) accepted by the licensing body of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth
         of the United States, or in the District of Columbia as qualifying for full or unrestricted licensure.
 A. Yes. I graduated from a United States school or college of optometry listed as accredited by the Council on Optometric Education of the American Optometric Association, in the list published for the year in which the course of study was completed.
 B. Yes. I graduated from a Canadian school or college of optometry listed as accredited by the Council on Optometric Education of the American Optometric Association, in the list published for the year in which the course of study was completed.
 C. Yes. I graduated from a School (including foreign school) accepted by the licensing body of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia as qualifying for full or unrestricted licensure.
 D. No. None of the above listed choices apply to me.
1a. If yes, provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received (or are expecting to receive) your degree of doctor of optometry education:
Name of Academic Institution
City and State
Type of Degree (e.g., Doctor of Optometry (O.D.))
Month and Year conferred (or expected to be conferred)
If above listed academic institution is affiliated with another institution/university/medical center, please provide name and location
2. License or Registration:  Do you meet at least one of the following licensure or registration requirements?

     (1) Optometrist (Except Residents). Licensed to practice optometry in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States,
           or in the District of Columbia. (Optometrists are required to possess full and unrestricted licensure and to maintain a current
           registration in their State of licensure if this is a requirement of the particular State. The facility Director may waive this
           requirement if the optometrist is to serve in a country other than the United States and the optometrist has licensure in that country.)
     (2) Residents. Licensure in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia before
           completion of the first year of VA residency.  (Unlicensed residents must meet any registration or other equivalent requirements
           established for optometric residents of non-VA facilities or optometry clinics with which the VA facility is affiliated for training
           purposes during the first year of VA residency.)
     (3) Impaired Licensure.  An optometrist who has, or has ever had, any license(s) revoked, suspended, denied, restricted, limited,
          or issued/placed on a probationary status may be appointed only in accordance with certain VA provisions.
 A. Yes. I am a licensed Optometrist as outlined above in the description.
 B. Yes. I am a licensed or registered VA Resident as outlined above in the description.
 C. Yes. I possess an impaired license as outlined above in the description.
 D. No. None of the above listed responses apply to me.
2a. If yes, provide the following information regarding your licensure/registration (active and expired): 
Name on License
Type of License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Initial/Original (or projected) issuance date
Expiration date
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Language: Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Please indicate your citizenship status.
 A. U.S. Citizen
 B. Permanent Resident Alien
 C. H-1B Temporary Worker Visa
 D. O-1 Temporary Worker Visa
 E. TN Temporary Worker Visa
 F. J-1 Exchange Visitor Visa
 G. None of the above.
***Application Package Notification & Important Information***

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the Heart of Texas VA Health Care System. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration.

Please Note: Your resume will not be referred for consideration if information is incomplete and not able to be verified per the VA Qualification Standards. Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.

Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.

Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.

Some helpful tips:
Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week
Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
Current VA Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).

Additional Resources:
Obtaining your Transcripts: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/ 
How to Build a Resume: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/ 
What to Include in my Federal resume: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected