Position Title
Statistician
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12805518-FDSSIB-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Thursday, October 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you wish to be considered for this detail opportunity as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee? Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
Statement of interest: Not to exceed one page, which outlines your experience relating to the knowledge and skills required to perform this detail successfully.
Written approval by supervisor to apply for and be selected for this detail.
Your most recent performance rating of a "pass," "satisfactory," or better.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


2.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 Yes
 No
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.


3.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


4.
I understand that this competitive detail may be over a year but will not impact my salary, grade, step, or promotion potential.
 Yes
 No


5.
I have received supervisory approval to apply to this announcement and have attached such proof to my application package.
 Yes
 No


6.
I acknowledge that this position will NOT place me into a remote position and this position will NOT allow for any duty station relocation. If selected I will remain reporting to my current duty station.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience working with programming languages such as: SQL, R, Python, SAS, SPSS or Stata to conduct statistical analyses, query or integrate data sets? This experience must be clearly documented in your resume.
 Yes
 No


2.
IOR 1530 - This position has an Individual Occupational Requirement. Choose one answer that best describes your education and experience.
 I have a degree that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography, international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology, political science, public administration, psychology, etc.
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes post high school education with courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling, (b) collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance, and tests of significance.
 I do not meet either of the requirements described above.


3.
I consolidated statistical data from a variety of sources to evaluate impacts across an organization.
 True
 False


4.
Which software have you used to conduct statistical analysis?
 A. SAS
 B. Stata
 C. R
 D. SPSS
 E. Excel
 F. None of the above


5.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience applying mathematical and statistical measures and/or models?
 I used mathematical and statistical measures and/or models to develop findings.
 I applied mathematical and statistical measures and/or models to make recommendations to more senior officials.
 I developed novel mathematical and statistical measures and/or models to inform senior officials on sensitive issues.
 I completed education and/or training related to using mathematical and statistical measures and/or models, but do not have professional experience.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to using mathematical and statistical measures and/or models.


6.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using statistics (e.g., reports, estimates, forecasts) to inform immigration policies and procedures?
 I assisted senior analysts by developing reports with descriptive statistics.
 I made recommendations on immigration policies and procedures based on descriptive statistic reports I generated.
 I provided policy development advice based on forecasted statistics.
 I briefed managers on statistical findings and estimates to inform policy development decisions.
 I completed education and/or training related to statistical reporting, but do not have professional experience.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to statistical reporting.


7.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using mathematical and/or statistical routine in a computer language (e.g., C++, Python, R, SAS, Java)?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to using mathematical and statistical routine in a computer language.
 I completed education and/or training related to using mathematical and statistical routine using a programming language, but do not have professional experience.
 I have leveraged pre-existing code to complete a research objective.
 I updated and executed pre-existing code to complete a research objective.
 I authored original code to be automated or leveraged by colleagues.


8.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience with mathematical modeling?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to mathematical modeling.
 I built mathematical models using programming languages but have not applied them to a professional use case.
 I applied existing mathematical models to professional use cases.
 I built a novel mathematical model using programming languages to make data-driven recommendations for existing problems.


9.
What statement best describes your highest level of experience using data mining tools to identify data trends and/or anomalies?
 I made modifications to previously developed reports.
 I created data mining tools from raw data elements.
 I automated routine reports to be readily available to senior managers and executives.
 I completed education and/or training related to data mining tools, but do not have professional experience.
 None of the above.


10.
Do you have experience translating raw data into reports that informed decisions made at the organization level?
 A. Assisted others compiling raw data into a usable format
 B. Translated raw data into reports for use by management within my division
 C. Translated raw data into reports for distribution outside of my division
 D. Translated raw data into reports to advise management decisions
 E. None of the above


11.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience participating in statistical research?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to conducting statistical research.
 I have had education and/or training related to conducting statistical research but do not have professional experience.
 I collected data as a member of a research team.
 I conducted statistical analyses to support policy decision-making.
 I directed research teams in conducting statistical analysis.


12.
Which activities have you independently performed?
 A. Applied statistical principles in multiple research projects occurring simultaneously.
 B. Analyzed complex and/or controversial problems (e.g., immigration reform) using statistical data analysis methods
 C. Made authoritative policy recommendations based on the application of statistical theories.
 D. Drafted reports with statistical analysis results.
 E. Presented technical statistical results to senior leaders/executives.
 F. None of the above.


13.
Which statement best describes your experience in research and analysis?
 I have applied multiple techniques using research and analysis to solve problems or make decision using classified and unclassified information.
 I have performed in-depth research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions using classified and unclassified information.
 I have fostered the use of research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions using classified and unclassified information.
 I have led mission specific teams in the use of research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions using classified and unclassified information.
 I do not meet any of the options provided.


14.
Please indicate which of the following items you have researched and analyzed in order to develop final products.
 A. Laws.
 B. Directives.
 C. Regulations.
 D. Policies.
 E. Program documents and/or standard operating procedures.
 F. Processes.
 G. Statistical data.
 H. Technical data.
 I. Professional journals.
 J. None of the above.


15.
Describe your experience analyzing and evaluating data sources.
 I have created analytic products that assist others in drawing conclusive trends at a high rate of success
 I have applied basic analysis and evaluation methods to data intelligence from sources such as raw intelligence reports, organizational databases, and available open sources information.
 I have evaluated data intelligence from sources such as raw intelligence reports, organizational databases, and available open source information using specific analysis procedures from mission specific requirements.
 I have evaluated sensitive data intelligence from sources such as raw intelligence reports, organizational databases, and available open source information for precedent setting policy creation.
 I do not meet any of the options provided.


16.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience managing data in spreadsheets and databases?
 I searched for information in existing databases and spreadsheets using sorts, filters, and/or queries.
 I manipulated data in spreadsheets/databases by creating formulas and graphs.
 I created spreadsheets/databases to organize data and performed data entry.
 I am certified in Microsoft Office (or comparable) programs for spreadsheets and/or databases.
 None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


17.
Have you been responsible for analyzing incomplete or anomalous data?
 Yes
 No


18.
Select the activities you have performed to ensure the data integrity of electronic systems.
 A. Reviewed electronic forms (i.e., Immigration Benefits, Personnel Requests) for completeness
 B. Verified accuracy of data entered
 C. Updated databases with new/revised information (i.e., templates, additional steps in current process)
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues
 F. None of the above


19.
Which statement describes your experience preparing data and reports?
 I assisted senior staff by collating and compiling data from multiple sources and produce reports that are disseminated throughout the organization.
 I use the functions of a spreadsheet to develop reports based upon a business need or requirement.
 I review information contained within a spreadsheet or database to verify its accuracy or conformance with agency/organizational standards.
 I enter information into spreadsheets or databases that is used to create recurring data reports for management.
 None of the above.


20.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers?
 I have not had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents.
 I have had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 I have developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers under close supervision to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have independently developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.


21.
Select the audiences for whom you have prepared customer feedback presentations (e.g., briefings).
 A. Colleagues
 B. Team leads/Program Managers
 C. First-line Supervisors
 D. Senior-level officials
 E. External partners
 F. None of the above


22.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience creating correspondence (e.g., customer notifications, response to inquiries)?
 I created correspondence following guidance (e.g., template, explicit directions from a superior).
 I created correspondence without guidance that was reviewed and approved before dissemination.
 I independently created correspondence that did not require higher-level review or approval.
 I trained others in proper creation of correspondence.
 I completed education and/or training related to creating correspondence, but do not have professional experience.
 I have no experience, training, or education creating correspondence.


23.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience providing guidance to work units on the collection, sharing, and maintenance of Personally Identifiable Information (PII)?
 I developed and implemented policies pertaining to handling Personally Identifiable Information (PII).
 I directed programs that provided guidance to work units on handling Personally Identifiable Information (PII).
 provided data and advice to leaders who were responsible for providing direction to work units on handling Personally Identifiable Information (PII).|
 None of the above.


24.
Which of the following describes your ability to provide effective communication to convey recommendations to various levels of leadership?
 I have conducted meetings with key stakeholders to gather and document business requirements.
 I have conducted interviews and working sessions with key stakeholders to obtain information on business functions, and procedures.
 I have made oral presentations of analysis, findings, and recommendations to key stakeholders.
 I do not meet any of the options provided.


25.
If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 Yes
 No
 I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


26.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙