Position Title
Electrical Engineer
Agency
Bonneville Power Administration
Announcement Number
25-BPA-47029-12790895-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Saturday, September 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND:

--you have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
--you are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/veterans/  

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current/former federal employee who meets one of the following Merit Promotion eligibilities:

1. Current career/career-conditional federal employee applying for a PROMOTION or TRANSFER to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?
2. Former career/career-conditional federal employee with "Status" applying for REINSTATEMENT to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?

Note: also select "Yes" if applying for a change-to-lower grade (CTLG) to a position with higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis.

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a SURPLUS or DISPLACED federal employee (e.g., Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP))?

If yes, confirm:

--you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;
--you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated;
--you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
--your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or equivalent.

For more information on eligibility visit:  https://www.usajobs.gov/help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/career-transition/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation)  AND:

--you worked in a term or temporary job (time-limited) under a competitive appointment;
--you served under 1 or more appointments for a period totaling more than 24 months, without a break in service of 2 or more years;
--you performed at an acceptable level during each period of service; AND
--if you are a former employee, you have been separated no more than 2 years since the most recent date of separation; and
--you did not leave your job due to misconduct or performance?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/land-management/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you the spouse of:

--a member of the armed forces serving on active duty;
--a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR
--a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower)?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/military-spouses/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?

-OR-

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position (you must provide supporting documentation?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/peace-corps/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8.
Are you a current/former federal employee who meets one of the following non-competitive eligibilities:

1. Current career/career-conditional federal employee applying for REASSIGNMENT, CHANGE-TO-LOWER GRADE, REPROMOTION, or TRANSFER, and you currently or previously held a position with the same grade/pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?
2. Former career/career-conditional federal employee with "Status", applying for REINSTATEMENT, and you previously held a position with the same grade/pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?
3. Current Excepted Service employee at an agency that has a valid INTERCHANGE agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM)?
4. Current or former federal employee with the Foreign Service, Postal Career Service, Postal Rate Commission Employee, Government Accountability Office (GAO), Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts or other federal agency for which you gained eligibility to apply for career/career-conditional positions?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=Types-of-Appointments

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Do you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/individuals-with-disabilities/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND:

--you served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military; OR
--you are entitled to veterans' preference?

Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour or claiming "derived preference" you may also meet the eligibility criteria.

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/veterans/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. I understand that I must select "Yes" to at least one of the eligibility questions to be considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Spokane, WA
 B. Vancouver, WA
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
3. Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).
4. Instructions: To provide the hiring manager an opportunity to consider your accomplishments, you may submit/attach copies of your performance appraisals and/or incentive award justification as part of your application by uploading these documents into USA Staffing.


All current Federal employees must have at least a fully successful or equivalent performance rating or higher, to be considered for competitive placement. Competitive Federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration.
 A. I am a current Federal employee, my last performance rating was fully successful (meets expectations) or equivalent, or higher.
 B. I am a current Federal employee; my last performance rating was unacceptable (fails to meet expectations).
 C. I am a new Federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of the date of this application.
 D. I am not a Federal employee; however, I will consider attaching my recent performance appraisal from my employer for consideration.
 E. I am not a Federal employee, and I do not have any performance documentation to submit for consideration.
5. Have you received awards or been recognized as part of your annual performance appraisal for work that was based on one or more of the competencies described in this vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Please list the title, agency and dates of the appointments
Executive Order 14170
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
Deferred Resignation Program
1. Are you a Department of Energy employee who accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) either through OPM's Fork in the Road or through DOE's DRP?

 A. Yes, I am a DOE employee who accepted the DRP through resignation or retirement.
 B. No, I am not a DOE DRP participant.
2. Are you a Department of Energy employee who is currently on Administrative Leave?
 A. Yes, I am a DOE employee who is currently on Administrative Leave
 B. No, I am not a DOE employee who is currently on Administrative Leave.
Assessment 1
1. BASIC REQUIREMENT - You must meet the minimum basic education and/or experience requirements for engineering positions in the Federal government. Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience.

 A. I have a degree in engineering. The program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics; OR
 B. I have a qualifying combination of education and experience as demonstrated by current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico; OR
 C. I have a qualifying combination of education and experience as demonstrated by evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico; OR
 D. I have a qualifying combination of education and experience as demonstrated by successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in the basic requirements under paragraph A in the announcement. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in paragraph A; OR
 E. I have a qualifying combination of education and experience as demonstrated by successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor's degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.)
 F. I do not meet any of the education or experience/education combinations listed above.
2. In addition to the basic requirement, choose one answer that best describes your experience.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service performing work appropriate to the position advertised in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet any of the requirements as described.
3. In addition to the basic requirement, choose one answer that best describes your experience.

 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work appropriate to the position advertised in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
Please indicate, with job titles and dates, where in your resume your experience addresses the following questions. Ensure that your two-page resume provides sufficient detail to support your qualifications. In compliance with Executive Order 14170, all resumes are limited to a maximum of two pages. Only the first two pages of your resume will be reviewed by the panel of subject matter experts during the evaluation process. Any content beyond the second page will not be considered. Please note that additional documentation, such as cover letters or links included in your resume, will not be reviewed.

4. Indicate where (using job title and dates) in your resume you have reviewed real time contingency analysis results to provide directions to systems operators. (limit 500 characters)
5. Indicate where (using job title and dates) in your resume you have delivered technical reports and briefings, incorporating relevant analysis, conclusions, and actionable recommendations on power systems. (limit 500 characters)
6. Indicate where (using job title and dates) in your resume you have assessed internal teams or external consultants engineering work to resolve electrical issues in high-voltage transmission systems. (limit 500 characters)
7. Indicate where (using job title and dates) in your resume you have assessed the readiness of analytical tools for real-time application in electrical system studies. (limit 500 characters)
8. Indicate where (using job title and dates) in your resume you have demonstrated the ability to make effective, timely decisions when information is limited or uncertain or may produce unpleasant consequences. (limit 500 characters)
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected