Position Title
Supervisory Information Technology Specialist - Chief (Office of IT Operations)
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
25-BEP-12796475-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Tuesday, September 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Fort Worth, TX
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).
5. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
6. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
8. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
9. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Specialized experience for the GS-15 is defined as one year of experience at the GS-14 level, or equivalent that is directly related to the position and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Developing, leading, or managing programs that identifies and assesses the nature and scope of cyber threats as well as implementing programs to reduce vulnerabilities to agency personnel, resources, and systems; AND
Working collaboratively across internal business units and other partners to manage cross cutting programs; AND
Planning and implementing scalable, reliable, and resilient solutions to support the enterprise.
For the GS-15, select the answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I have at least one full year of specialized experience as described above.
 B. I do not meet the specialized experience as described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. In addition to meeting the Specialized Experience as described in the vacancy announcement, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below.
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
Do you meet the IT-related experience as stated?


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please select the answer that best describes your experience in reference to overseeing staff in promoting awareness of IT security issues among management officials.
 A. I have performed this task as a team member. My work on this task was monitored by a team leader or supervisor to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 B. I have performed this task as a team leader. I reviewed and monitored subordinate employees' work. My work on this task was monitored by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 C. I performed this task as a manager/supervisor as a regular part of my job. This task was performed independently and without more than normal review by senior management.
 D. I performed this task as a consultant. I have supervised or am normally consulted by others for training or assistance in performing this task.
 E. None of the above.
4. Please select the answer that best describes your experience in reference to ensuring sound security principles are reflected in an agency's visions and goals.
 A. I have performed this task as a team member. My work on this task was monitored by a team leader or supervisor to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 B. I have performed this task as a team leader. I reviewed and monitored subordinate employees' work. My work on this task was monitored by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 C. I performed this task as a manager/supervisor as a regular part of my job. This task was performed independently and without more than normal review by senior management.
 D. I performed this task as a consultant. I have supervised or am normally consulted by others for training or assistance in performing this task.
 E. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Have you coordinated and directed work through subordinate supervisors?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Indicate your experience in maintaining and promoting effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers, and contractors.
 A. I have established working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers, and/or contractors.
 B. I have led efforts to promote establishing effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers, and/or contractors.
 C. I have worked on teams to promote establishing effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers, and/or contractors.
 D. I have developed programs to promote establishing effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers, and/or contractors.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
7. Please select from the following experiences those which you have performed in reference to management responsibilities.
 A. Organizing tasks for subordinate supervisors using judgment regarding individual abilities.
 B. Evaluating subordinate supervisor performance.
 C. Estimating material and manpower needs for specific jobs.
 D. Preparing production and work records and reports.
 E. Reviewing and approving work procedures and manuals.
 F. Training supervisors in new procedures.
 G. Motivating subordinate supervisors in supervising employees to perform accurate, efficient production.
 H. Facilitating in face-to-face groups.
 I. Conflict Management
 J. Managing within a unionized environment.
 K. Conducting and documenting formal appraisals and reviews.
 L. Interest based negotiating
 M. Developing personal goals and standards.
 N. Planning and facilitating meetings.
 O. Corrective and Progressive discipline.
 P. None of the above.
8. Choose the best response(s) below that describe the type of program management work you routinely conduct.
 A. Portfolio analysis
 B. Manage and lead a project team
 C. Budgetary
 D. Compliance
 E. Performance reporting
 F. Program evaluation
 G. None of the above.
9. In which areas have you provided guidance to co-workers regarding automated information systems and applications?
 A. Analysis
 B. Design
 C. Development
 D. Implementation
 E. Evaluation
 F. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
10. Do you have experience managing multiple simultaneous IT programs and projects across diverse cross-cutting teams including systems development and/or systems integration?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Select the response(s) that describe your program management experience and organizational accomplishments.
 A. I have experience setting program priorities consistent with the organization's values, mission and vision.
 B. I have experience advising, consulting with, and/or negotiating with customers in the delivery of Information Technology (IT) services or products.
 C. I have experience in the planning of resources, delivery schedules and milestones.
 D. I have experience monitoring and tracking program goals and organizational accomplishments.
 E. I have experience in establishing and monitoring quality control and quality assurance processes.
 F. I have experience in developing annual work plans, objectives, priorities, workload of resources and schedules for accomplishment of work plan.
 G. I have experience implementing new technologies and innovative approaches within a work group.
 H. I have experience in monitoring, measuring and responding to customer satisfaction feedback from partners, stakeholders, clients, contractors, suppliers, etc.
 I. I have no experience in program management.
12. Choose the statement(s) that describe your oral communication experience.
 A. I have persuaded others to accept recommendations, alternative viewpoints, or a particular course of action.
 B. I have explained technical information to others.
 C. I conducted training sessions for audiences with different levels of comprehension.
 D. I informed others of organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities.
 E. I have served as a spokesperson for an organization.
 F. I have facilitated communications between different organizational entities.
 G. I have mediated problem resolution.
 H. None of the above.
13. Select the response(s) that describe your written communication experience.
 A. Writing recovery plans for system failure situations.
 B. Documenting resolutions to incidents and problems.
 C. Developing operating specifications for IT equipment and services.
 D. Developing presentations to persuade and/or influence management to comply with IT policies and regulations.
 E. Writing plans, criteria, and/or hardware and software specifications for hardware projects.
 F. Drafting policies, procedures, and/or strategies governing the planning and delivery of IT services.
 G. Writing management briefings to explain technical recommendations and protocols designed to enhance organizational efficiency and effectiveness.
 H. None of the above.
14. Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in supporting customers.
 A. Experience that involves routinely resolving unique or complex customer support issues.
 B. Experience involves routinely working with internal managers or other supervisory support personnel to identify and resolve unique or complex customer support issues.
 C. Experience involves routinely working with internal managers or other supervisory support personnel to identify and resolve recurring customer issues and problems.
 D. Experience involves establishing, monitoring, and maintaining performance metrics associated with customer support services.
 E. None of the above apply.
15. Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in supporting IT Infrastructure.
 A. Experience coordinating deployment or management of individual components and systems, providing detailed guidance on the implementation and configuration requirements.
 B. Experience coordinating cross-discipline support team in the deployment or management of IT infrastructure components and systems.
 C. Experience architecting complex (multiple inter-connected systems or network) solutions and coordinating cross-discipline teams to implement and manage the solutions.
 D. Experience with enterprise operating and managing datacenter(s), networks, peripherals, and workstations.
 E. None of the above apply.
16. Describe your experience developing and delivering verbal presentations, reports and briefs for technical and non-technical audiences, and senior decision makers.
 A. I have written briefings or reports and made presentations of a technical or non-technical nature before senior management or other interested parties.
 B. I have provided input for briefings, reports or presentations of a technical or non-technical nature upon request to senior management officials or outside interested parties.
 C. I do not have the experience described above.
17. From the following list, select the supervisory duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. Responsible for first line supervision to employees.
 C. Developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work.
 D. Instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 E. Interviewed candidates for positions.
 F. Recommended individuals for appointment, promotion, or reassignment.
 G. Worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 H. Resolved office conflicts through mediation and/or other forms of alternative dispute resolution.
 I. Addressed employee conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions.
 J. Coached employees on performance issues.
 K. Followed necessary steps when an employee performance did not improve.
 L. None of the above.
18. Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience in leading IT projects or project teams?
 A. Establish priorities among multiple projects.
 B. Establish timelines for multiple projects.
 C. Close out projects.
 D. Start up and manage projects through completion and close out projects.
 E. Meet deadlines.
 F. Use project management software.
 G. Make resource decisions for completing projects.
 H. Anticipate and resolve problems.
 I. Assign tasks and monitor performance.
 J. None of the above.
19. Choose the statement(s) that describe your program management experience in achieving an organizational IT mission.
 A. I have advised, consulted with, and/or negotiated with customers in the delivery of projects or programs.
 B. I have set goals and objectives for accomplishments of programs or projects.
 C. I have planned the resources, delivery schedules, and milestones.
 D. I have monitored and tracked programs and organizational accomplishments.
 E. I have established and tracked program delivery measures.
 F. I have established and monitored program delivery productivity.
 G. I have established and monitored delivery cost controls.
 H. I have developed annual work plans, objectives, priorities, workloads of resources, and schedules for accomplishment of work plans.
 I. None of the above.
20. Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience in managing and monitoring a budget for an organization.
 A. I have developed and justified a multi-year budget for an organization.
 B. I have been responsible for cost analysis and developing an operating budget for an organization with a variety of program elements.
 C. I have compiled information for the development of a budget.
 D. I have managed the budgetary process, including development and execution.
 E. I have developed and implemented marketing strategies that ensure appropriate funding levels.
 F. I have overseen procurement and contracting procedures and/or served as a Contracting Officers Representative.
 G. I have tracked and analyzed expenditure trends.
 H. I have conducted a current budget needs assessment.
 I. I have obligated funds.
 J. I have monitored funding expenditures for accuracy and appropriateness.
 K. I have reconciled commitments, obligations, and expenditures.
 L. I have reprogrammed funds across organization programs.
 M. I have explained and defended budget requests before senior agency management officials.
 N. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected