Position Title
Dentist - PT Oral Surgeon
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
OCA-FY25-0680-Dentist-PT Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, June 10, 2025 to Wednesday, December 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Dentist (Oral Surgeon Part-Time) position with the Veteran's Affairs. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be clearly supported by your resume and other supporting documents.
Basic Requirements:

The following are requirements for appointment as a Dentist in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA).
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Citizenship:

All applicants are required to be a citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified candidates in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g.)

Are you a citizen of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education:

Degree of doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine resulting from a course of education in dentistry. The degree must have been obtained from one of the schools approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are:

(1) United States and Canadian schools of dentistry listed by the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA), in the list published for the year in which the course of study was completed.

(2) Schools (including foreign schools) accepted by the licensing body of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia as qualifying for full and unrestricted licensure provided the licensure requirements include a written examination measuring science achievement and a performance examination measuring clinical competence.

NOTE: The Under Secretary for Health or designee in Central Office may approve the appointment under authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405 of a graduate of a school of dentistry not covered above if the candidate is to be assigned to a research or academic position with no patient care responsibilities. The appointment will be made only in exceptional circumstances where the candidate's credentials clearly demonstrate high professional attainment or expertise in the specialty area. (Also see paragraph 2d(4) below on waiver of licensure provisions.) The Under Secretary for Health or designee may also approve the appointment of a graduate of a school of dentistry not covered above as a resident under 38 U.S.C. 7406.

Do you possess a Degree of Doctor of Dentistry or an equivalent degree?

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Residency or Comparable Experience:

Completion of an approved residency program in general practice or specialty, or comparable experience as a dentist actively involved in treating medically compromised patients.

NOTE: The appointing official may approve, under unusual circumstances, a waiver of Residency or Comparable Experience.

Have you completed residency training?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Licensure and Registration:

(1) Dentists (Except Residents): Current, full, and unrestricted license to practice dentistry in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia. The dentist must maintain current registration in the State of licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active, current licensure.

(2) Residents (Independent and Integrated Programs): Graduates of approved United States and Canadian schools of dentistry must have a current, full and unrestricted license to practice dentistry in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia before the second year of VA residency, or, for integrated programs, meet any licensure, registration or other equivalent requirements established for residents of non-VA hospitals with which the VA facility is affiliated for training purposes. The resident must maintain current registration in the State of licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active current licensure.

(3) Impaired Licensure: A dentist who has, or has ever had, any license(s) revoked, suspended, denied, restricted, limited, or issued/placed in a probationary status may be appointed only in accordance with the provisions of section B, chapter 3, paragraphs 14 and 17c, of this part.

(4) Waiver of Licensure: Licensure may be waived by the Under Secretary for Health or designee in Central Office for individuals in research or academic assignments involving no direct patient care responsibilities in accordance with current regulations.

Do you possess a current, full and unrestricted license to practice dentistry in a state, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Physical Requirements:

Long periods of sitting and recurring bending and reaching are required while performing dental oral surgery procedures. The Oral Surgeon must also demonstrate above average dexterity in manipulating dental instruments and materials.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. English Language Proficiency:

Dentists, including residents, appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Dental Staff Requirements:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Dental Staff Requirements:

(1) Staff Dentist:
An individual that demonstrates the ability in the field of general dentistry or a dental specialty who is employed to perform the duties related to various professional activities of patient care and treatment without supervision. In addition to meeting the basic requirements, applicants must demonstrate ability in the general practice of dentistry; be capable of assisting in maintaining accepted standards of professional care in VA facilities; and be capable of accepting full responsibility for the proper care and treatment of assigned patients.

(2) Attending:
A dentist who teaches and supervises fellows, residents, and students in the provision of dental treatment for Veterans. The attending dentist has primary responsibility for the care of the patient and provides direct patient care when not supervising trainees or performing other required duties. In addition to meeting the basic requirements, attendings must demonstrate the following:

(a) Ability in the field of dentistry and the ability to assist in maintaining accepted standards of professional care in VA facilities. Capable of accepting full responsibility for the proper care and treatment of assigned patients.

(b) Ability to train residents assigned to the service in facilities conducting residency training programs. An attending is a qualified dentist possessing privileges to perform all procedures being supervised. Attendings not holding a faculty appointment in an associated dental school must be recognized as an outstanding member of the profession of the caliber of a faculty member.

(3) Consultant:
A dentist who is capable of giving authoritative views and opinions on subjects in dentistry. A consultant's expertise may consist of broad administrative or professional experience enabling the consultant to give advice of distinctive value. In addition to meeting the basic requirements, consultants must demonstrate all of the following:

(a) Outstanding professional ability and professional experience in a dental specialty or advanced dentistry;

and

(b) Ability to direct the educational training of residents in the appropriate specialty in facilities affiliated with approved dental schools. A consultant not holding a faculty appointment in an associated dental school should possess equivalent professional qualifications.

NOTE 1: A dentist who represents a specialty for which no specialty board exists may be appointed as a consultant if the individual possesses outstanding ability in the particular field of specialization.

NOTE 2: All dentists, including residents, consultants and attendings, will accomplish the numerous administrative requirements of medical staff members, including but not limited to: mandatory training, attendance on medical center committees, and computer and privacy compliance

Do you meet the requirements of above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected