Position Title
Personnel Research Psychologist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
HRM-SMP-12733899-JPH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans Resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Member Copy 4 indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service; AND
Veterans Affairs (VA) Disability award letter dated 1991 or later, or supporting documentation as listed in the SF-15.
For information on how to request your veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000  or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/ 
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities Resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your eligibility for a Schedule A appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is currently on Active Duty?

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority. 

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit official supporting documentation (i.e. copy of the Active Duty orders or statement of service)

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit all supporting documents identified on the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Member 4 copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.). For information on how to request veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000   or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/ 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans Resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former (involuntarily separated without cause within the preceding year) federal employee eligible for a status appointment under a current Interchange Agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?
Tennessee Valley Authority
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Veterans Health Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs
Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employees of the Department of Defense
Federal Aviation Administration
Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Security Administration
Corporation for National and Community Service
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your current or involuntary separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 reflecting your status.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for non-competitive consideration under Miscellaneous Authorities? 
Postal Career Service Employees
Postal Rate Commission Employees
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employees
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employees
Peace Corps Service or Vista Member: To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility.
Were you a Peace Corps Volunteer or Vista Member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, enrollment as a student at an accredited institution of higher learning or another activity? If you are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, provide the necessary documentation to support your request.  
Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years? 
Certain Former Overseas Employee: Were you employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee AND did you: complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appropriated fund position(s) as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an overseas area; AND receive a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating; AND return to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago?-To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, and performance appraisal. For more information, review USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources.
Certain Present and Former Foreign Service Officers: Have you completed at least 1 year of continuous service immediately before separation from one or more nontemporary Foreign Service appointments; AND, your separation from a Foreign Service career-type appointment occurred in the last 3 years (individuals entitled to veterans' preference do not need to meet this 3-year requirement)? OR Have you completed at least 3 years of substantially continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in the Foreign Service immediately before separation from an unlimited, career-type appointment in that Service? -To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 reflecting your nontemporary status. If you are outside of the 3-year requirement but are entitled to veterans' preference, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
Other Miscellaneous Authorities not included above
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
The specific authority for which you are claiming; AND
Documentation supporting your eligibility for your claim, such as a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 reflecting your status. AND 
Any specific documentation noted above in the hiring authority
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. For information on how to request your veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000  or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/
 A. Yes
 B. No
9.

Are you a current or former land management employee eligible to apply under The Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act as described in 5 U.S.C 9602, who meets the conditions below?  

Hired for a temporary or term position under a competitive appointment.  

Served one or more temporary or term appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years.  

Performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service.  

If no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following: 

Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 reflecting your time limited status. 

Additional Standard Form 50s may be required to demonstrate a service period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years.  

Your most recent performance appraisal demonstrating fully successful, or equivalent.  See Additional Information section of vacancy announcement for further details.    

If you have had multiple periods of time-limited employment, you must show proof of acceptable levels of employment for each of the periods of employment used to satisfy the 24-month requirement.  

 A. Yes
 B. No
10.

The following question applies to former permanent federal employees in the competitive service, or federal employees who are currently in an excepted service position or other than permanent competitive service position but who previously held a permanent competitive service position. Details and Temporary Promotions are not considered permanent positions.  

Are you a current or former federal civilian employee with the Federal government that meets one of the following criteria? 

Is currently employed with the Federal government in an excepted service position, or other than permanent competitive service position; who was previously employed with the Federal government with career status in a competitive service appointment; OR 
Is currently employed with the Federal government in an excepted service position, or other than permanent competitive service position, who was previously employed with the Federal government with career-conditional status in a competitive service appointment and has had no more than a total of 3 years of separation from their previous career conditional appointment or are Veterans' Preference eligible.  
Was previously employed with the Federal government with career status in a competitive service appointment, OR 
Was previously employed with the Federal government with a career-conditional status in a competitive service appointment and has had no more than a total of 3 years of separation from their previous career conditional appointment or are Veterans' Preference eligible. 

To verify your eligibility as indicated above, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting your former permanent position in the competitive service: 

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2)  
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1)  

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center and OPM Hiring Information. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
11.

The following question applies to a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service.  If you are not a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service, select No.   

Are you a current federal civilian employee with the Federal government in a permanent competitive service position? 

To verify your eligibility as indicated above, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting your current permanent position in the competitive service 

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2)  
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1)  

NOTE:  If you are a current federal employee in an excepted service position or other than permanent competitive service position then you are not eligible under this current federal employee eligibility.  If you have prior permanent competitive service with the federal government, you may be eligible as a reinstatement applicant if the announcement is open to former federal employees. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
12.

This question applies to current or former Federal employees. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Applicants who do not answer this question correctly are not removed from consideration.  However, if you claim only the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Promotion potential (also referred to as full performance level - FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not considered permanent positions. The examples provided below and are not all inclusive but are provided for informational purposes only.  

Examples:   

You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12. 
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12. 
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 would be considered the highest promotion potential you have held.  
You formerly held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis with promotion potential to the GS-13 and have been separated less than 52 weeks. GS-13 would be considered the highest promotion potential you have held. 
You were a former Federal employee and have been separated for over 52 weeks, you may be considered for a promotion potential above what you previously held without competition if it is determined you meet the specialized or general experience.  
To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee with promotion potential, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) that reflect:   
Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2); AND
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1); OR
Position Occupied (Box 34): Excepted service (2); when in another merit system which OPM has an interchange; AND
Promotion Potential equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced; AND if applicable,

If you are a former Federal employee, and have been separated from Federal service for over 52 weeks, it is recommended that you submit your most recent career or career-conditional position rating of record (performance appraisal) along with your SF-50 that reflects: 

Rate of record (performance appraisal) of at least fully successful (or equivalent) 

Are you one of the following below?
A current or former Federal employee who has held a permanent position in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement, OR
A former Federal employee who has been separated more than 52 weeks who has previously held a permanent position in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) as noted in the announcement? (Applicants who were previously employed with the Federal government and did not previously hold the promotion potential of the position announced may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures if it has been longer than 52-weeks since previous Federal employment, provide your rating of record (performance appraisal) of at least fully successful (or equivalent) and you are considered qualified). 
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
7. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
 G. Not applicable. I am eligible for consideration under a Special Appointing Authority.
8. The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Have you successfully completed a full 4-year course of study  in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree that included a major field of study (or equivalent) in psychology?
 A. YES
 B. NO
9. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes leading a team in conducting job analysis and test development in accordance with laws and regulations; leading others in applying research techniques and measurement theories, principles, and practices to develop tools such as surveys or other assessments to meet organizational needs; utilizing a major statistical analysis package such as Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS), Statistical Analysis System (SAS), or R for Statistical Computing to conduct descriptive, inferential, and multivariate statistical analyses; developing new approaches, methods, techniques, and hypotheses related to assigned projects; and conducting research and development which contributes to the field of industrial/organizational psychology or equivalent applied research field.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate the extent of your experience performing organizational research activities (e.g., job analysis, climate analysis, skills assessments).

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I completed education or training related to organizational research, but have not applied this knowledge in my work.
 C. I worked as part of a team and completed assigned work related to conducting organizational research activities.
 D. I have led a team in conducting organizational research activities.
2. Indicate your level of experience in performing job analyses and using the results to develop tools for human resources management (e.g., personnel selection, workforce planning, organizational design, employee development).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have performed job analysis, but I have not used the results to develop tools for human resources management.
 C. I have performed job analysis. I have assisted others in using the results to develop tools for human resources management.
 D. I have led job analyses and used the results to develop tools for human resources management.
3. Indicate your level of experience in designing and developing a variety of tests and other assessments (e.g., selection tests, structured interviews, surveys).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in the design and development of tests and other assessments.
 C. I have worked as a member of a team to design and develop substantial portions of tests and other assessments.
 D. I have led the design and development of tests and other assessments.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience conducting statistical analyses in the construction or validation of personnel assessments (e.g., reliability, validity, test fairness).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have completed education or training in statistical analyses related to the construction or validation of personnel assessments, but I have not used this training.
 C. I have conducted statistical analyses related to the construction or validation of personnel assessments as a member of a team.
 D. I have independently conducted statistical analyses related to the construction or validation of personnel assessments.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience evaluating the statistical adequacy of a variety of test and survey item types.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have evaluated the reliability of a variety of test and survey item types.
 C. I have evaluated the reliability and validity of a variety of test and survey item types, and have conducted norming or equating studies on these items.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience facilitating focus groups or subject matter expert (SME) panels.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in the facilitation of focus groups or SME panels, primarily in the role of note-taker.
 C. I have facilitated portions of a focus group or SME panel, following established protocol and guidelines.
 D. I have facilitated focus groups or SME panels for a variety of projects. I have revised or developed materials to structure the group/panel and gather targeted information.
 E. In addition to facilitating focus groups and SME panels, I have established new protocol and guidelines to structure the group/panel.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience developing data collection plans.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted in developing a data collection plan for small-scale surveys or validation studies.
 C. I have developed data collection plans for organization-wide surveys or validation studies.
 D. I have led the development of data collection plans for organization-wide surveys and validation studies.
8. Select the option that best describes your training and experience in applying psychological research techniques and measurement theories, principles, and practices in order to meet organizational needs (e.g., factors driving attrition, workforce resilience, organizational climate).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have studied psychological research techniques and measurement theories, principles, and practices, but have not had the opportunity to apply this knowledge to meet organizational needs.
 C. In addition to having studied psychological research techniques and measurement theories, principles, and practices, I have worked as a member of a team to design and develop research proposals that involved applying these theories, principles and practices to meet organizational needs.
 D. I have independently performed work or I have led a project team in performing work that involved applying psychological research techniques and measurement theories, principles, and practices to meet organizational needs.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience conducting surveys measuring human behavior, capacities, traits, interests, and activities.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in the development and implementation of a small-scale survey measuring human behavior, capacities, traits, interests, or activities. I have participated in data analysis and reporting of the survey data.
 C. I have independently developed and implemented several surveys measuring human behavior, capacities, traits, interests, or activities. I have analyzed the data and prepared a report of key survey findings.
 D. I have led a project team in the development and implementation of large-scale surveys measuring human behavior, capacities, traits, interests, or activities. I have led data analysis and reporting, and have overseen the development of key survey findings and recommendations to be used by decision makers in my organization.
10. Select the option that best describes your training and experience in applying legal and professional standards in the design and validation of personnel assessments, (for example, the APA/AERA/NCME Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing, the SIOP Principles for the Validation and Use of Personnel Selection Procedures, and the Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures)

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have studied legal and professional standards, but have not had the opportunity to apply this knowledge to test development and validation.
 C. I have applied legal and professional standards to the design and documentation of assessments.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in using word processing, presentation, and spreadsheet software (for example, Microsoft Word, Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Excel).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have used word processing, presentation, and spreadsheet software to access and retrieve data, files, or other information to respond to routine inquiries or to disseminate general information.
 C. I have used word processing, presentation, and spreadsheet software to create, print, and send data, files, or other information in order to compile information, maintain logs, or prepare basic reports or presentations.
 D. I have used word processing, presentation, and spreadsheet software to create, edit, and manipulate data in order to perform statistical analyses, write comprehensive reports, develop presentations, or design new procedures.
12. Select the choice which best describes your experience in establishing and adjusting priorities for work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have established priorities for my own work and I have made adjustments to accommodate planned changes or to comply with new procedures.
 C. I have established priorities for a team or group project and I have made adjustments to accommodate unexpected changes in project resources or goals or unanticipated changes in the work place.
 D. I have established priorities for projects involving multiple teams or organizations and I have made adjustments to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks.
13. Indicate the extent to which you have identified the impact and implications of alternative decisions on a program or organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in brainstorming sessions seeking to identify the impact of various proposals on a specific issue or program.
 C. I have led a workgroup charged with determining the most viable option for resolving an issue impacting an organization, and made a formal recommendation to superiors.
 D. I have developed and presented written analyses of the predicted impact on an organization at the national level of multiple alternative proposals, including justification for a recommended course of action.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience providing consultative services to customers.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have responded to routine questions from customers about a specific project or program.
 C. I worked as a member of a team providing consultative services (e.g., establishing processes, designing assessments, interpreting data) to customers on a variety of projects and programs.
 D. I have been the primary liaison with customers for a project or program. I performed a needs assessment, implemented solution(s), and followed up to ensure the solution was effective.
15. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written portions of technical reports, research papers, journal articles, and other documents.
 C. I have independently composed or served as lead author on research or technical reports, information papers, journal articles, and other complete documents.
 D. In addition to preparing complete technical documents, I have reviewed and edited technical reports, research papers, journal articles, or other documents to verify completeness, accuracy, and conformance with professional standards.
16. Select the choice which best describes your experience working in or leading work-related teams.

 A. I have had no experience in working in or leading work-related teams.
 B. I have participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 C. I have led a team within my own work unit, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring their progress.
 D. I have led several teams within my own work unit and I have ensured that project goals and deadlines were met and I provided feedback to team members on their performance.
 E. I have led large and integrated project teams consisting of members from multiple work units across my organization. I have assigned and overseen all project tasks, ensured that project goals and deadlines were met, and provided feedback to team members on their performance.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected