Position Title
Accounting Officer
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12814416 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 29, 2025 to Wednesday, November 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Financial Manager position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a minimum of five years of specialized experience formulating plans, establishing financial policies and procedures, and issuing general direction of a financial activity? 
 Yes
 No


2.
How many years of experience do you have with the goals, principles, and techniques of the administration, management, and financial processes of a large community, industrial, or military community support program?

 I have 10+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 7 – 10 years of experience as described above.
 I have 4 – 6 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have performing the full-range of supervisory duties (e.g. leading a team, scheduling, assigning daily tasks, budgeting labor expenses, approving PRs, reviewing and approving/denying leave requests)?

 I have 5+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 – 5 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 – 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
Select the response that best describes your experience with accounting principles and financial control systems used within the Federal Government.
 I have experience with accounting principles and financial control systems within Navy NAF.
 I have experience with accounting principles and financial control systems within DoD.
 I have experience with accounting principles and financial control systems in a non-DOD federal agency or from private sector.
 I have no experience as described above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have with providing briefings and advising senior leadership?

 I have 5+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 – 5 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 – 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙