Position Title
Mission Support Assistant
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO-IMP-12789472-MLH Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 28, 2025 to Thursday, September 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. Denver, CO
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
6
7
3. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
7. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-6 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable.  TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not  (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
8. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-6 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-6 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-6 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable.  TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not  (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
9. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-06 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that included disseminating information material to various target audiences assisting in preparing budget requests by compiling data and by preparing justification statements based on information provided by senior Mission Support Specialist; researching potential suppliers and works with appropriate staff to procure needed goods; maintaining the organization’s personnel files and record and compiling various recurring and ad hoc reports; assisting with routine procurements by preparing purchase orders and supporting documents, as required.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
2. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-07 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that included preparing a variety of recurring and ad hoc budget and accounting reports based on established practice; entering personnel actions in appropriate automated systems, assuring that they are appropriate and complete; assisting with the annual physical inventory of nonexpendable property and equipment, notes discrepancies, and maintains documentation; advising management of payroll changes, and working to resolve payroll problems with payroll staff. Assisting users in the organization with software, hardware, and automation problems, as requested.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Check all of the following software categories in which you are able to independently create and modify products and use the software as a tool in performing the tasks required of this position.

 A. Word Processing (e.g., Word)
 B. E-mail
 C. Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel, Quattro Pro)
 D. Graphics / Presentation Tools (e.g., Power Point)
 E. Web browsers/search engines
 F. Microsoft Office
 G. None of the above
4. From the list below, select those products you have independently produced using computer systems and software.

 A. Documents using Desktop Publishing
 B. Formal correspondence using word processing software
 C. Final reports containing tables, charts, and graphics using word processing software
 D. Spreadsheets
 E. Formal briefings or presentation slides using presentation software
 F. Web documents in PDF format
 G. None of the above
5. Which of the following office tasks have you performed independently in jobs that you have held?

 A. Receive, open and distribute mail to a variety of recipients
 B. Search files for documents or other sources of information
 C. Make copies, collate, and/or bind materials Greet, refer and assist visitors
 D. Receive telephone calls and determine proper referrals Compose simple correspondence for review by others Prepare a variety of reports in accordance with instructions
 E. Order supplies
 F. None of the above
6. Which of the following have you performed in arranging meetings or conferences for your supervisor?

 A. Drafted the meeting or conference agenda and presentation outlines
 B. Assembled supporting materials
 C. Prepared formal presentation slides, handouts, and/or other visual aid materials
 D. Attended the meeting or conference, recording minutes and action items
 E. Published and distributed final minutes
 F. None of the above
7. From the following choices, select those duties that you have performed in the administration of a time and attendance (T&A) reporting system.

 A. Maintained records of attendance, leave, and overtime authorized by my supervisor for subordinate staff members
 B. Entered time and attendance (T&A) records into automated timekeeping or payroll systems
 C. Advised and assisted employees, supervisors, and managers in the completion of T&A forms
 D. Resolved error conditions concerning regular hours, work schedules, premium pay, and leave
 E. Served as a formally trained and designated timekeeper responsible for maintaining and reporting all T&A data for an organization of employees
 F. Prepared required T&A reports
 G. None of the above
8. From the list below, select the duties you were responsible for while working in a mailroom or office:

 A. Distributing incoming mail to an entire facility or office
 B. Distributing packages (e.g., Fed Ex, UPS) weighing up to 40 pounds to an entire facility or office
 C. Reviewing, sorting and checking lost mail
 D. Maintaining logs of all incoming packages
 E. Ensuring proper log in and receipt procedures are used for all packages
 F. Reviewing, sorting, and checking address for all outgoing mail
 G. Reviewing, sorting, and checking address for all incoming mail
 H. None of the above
9. From the list below, select the one that best describes your experience in working with schedules and deadlines.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
10. From the list below, select those tasks you have performed to support staff travel.

 A. Prepared travel authorizations/orders
 B. Made domestic travel reservations and arrangements
 C. Prepared travel vouchers
 D. Reviewed travel vouchers for accuracy and completeness
 E. Resolved errors in travel vouchers submitted using automated voucher system(s)
 F. None of the above
11. From the list below, select those tasks you have performed using an automated travel system to support staff travel.

 A. Prepared travel authorizations/orders
 B. Made domestic travel reservations and arrangements
 C. Prepared travel vouchers
 D. Reviewed travel vouchers for accuracy and completeness
 E. Resolved errors in travel vouchers submitted using automated voucher system(s)
 F. None of the above
12. I have initiated the following types of personnel actions at the request of my supervisor:

 A. Requests for recruitment
 B. Requests for training
 C. Accident reports
 D. New employee orientation and associated documentation
 E. None of the above
13. Which of the following types of reports have you had experience producing and/or coordinating to meet your employer's information requirements?

 A. Work plan or work assignment accomplishment reports
 B. Budget execution/status of funds reports
 C. Overtime usage reports
 D. Property / equipment inventory reports
 E. Vehicle reports
 F. Receiving reports for procured supplies, property, or services
 G. Safety reports
 H. None of the above
14. Identify all of the following administrative activities that you have completed:

 A. Coordinating administrative requirements for reprogramming and transfer of funds between accounts and offices serviced.
 B. Coordinating and monitors the organization’s property management and space utilization programs.
 C. Ensuring budget requests have all required information, and ceiling and budget approv-al. Resolving processing discrepancies with the appropriate manager or supervisor.
 D. Examining documentation and reports to develop supportable conclusions based on standardized research.
 E. Maintaining the required level of confidentiality in creating and updating folders.
 F. Preparing, processing and coordinating budget transactions to a successful completion.
 G. Preparing, processing and coordinating personnel actions to a successful completion.
 H. None of the above
15. From the following list of statements, select the one which best describes your highest level of experience in identifying and correcting errors on information submitted for data entry, or errors on a data base following data entry.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
16. From the following list of statements, select the one which best describes your highest level of experience in reviewing information for errors prior to entry onto a data base, and comparing information on a data base against the information originally provided for entry.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected