Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (RV Parks Manager)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
MYPT-25-12792037 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
1. Do you currently have, or are you able to obtain and maintain, a valid driver's license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Work may require considerable walking and movement of equipment day-to-day, and may require lifting up to eighty (80) pounds with assistance.  Are you willing and able to meet these physical requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a RV Park manager, NF-0303-03 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Do you possess a degree in Recreation or related field from an accredited college or equivalent work experience and training that include the necessary skills, knowledge and ability to perform the duties of this position? (Proof of education must be uploaded to receive credit)
 A. Yes, I possess a degree in Recreation or related field from an accredited college.
 B. I do not possess a degree in Recreation or related field, but have equivalent work experience and training that include the necessary skills, knowledge and ability to perform the duties of this position.
 C. No, I do not possess a degree in Recreation or related field from an accredited college, nor equivalent work experience and training that include the necessary skills, knowledge and ability to perform the duties of this position
2. Your knowledge of general business principles & financial management, to include but not limited to, budgeting, cost and profitability, financial reporting, internal controls, auditing, and purchasing, can best be described as:
 A. Four (4) or more years of experience.
 B. Two (2) to four (4) years of experience.
 C. Less than two (2) years of experience.
 D. I do not possess experience as stated above.
3. My experience supervising and managing direct report employees can be best described as:
 A. I have four (4) or more years of experience supervising and managing direct report employees.
 B. I have two (2) to four (4) years of experience supervising and managing direct report employees.
 C. I have less than two (2) years of experience supervising and managing direct report employees.
 D. I possess no experience as stated above.
4. How much experience do you have with the operation of a RV Park or lodging facility?
 A. I have four (4) or more years of experience with the operation of a RV Park.
 B. I have four (4) or more years of experience with the operation of a lodging facility, but not a RV Park specifically.
 C. I have two (2) to four (4) years of experience with the operation of a RV Park.
 D. I have two (2) to four (4) years of experience with the operation of a lodging facility, but not a RV Park specifically.
 E. I have less than two (2) years of experience in with the operation of a RV Park or lodging facility.
 F. I do not have experience with the operation of a RV Park or lodging facility.
5. How much experience do you have with using a RV Park Management or another alike lodging software system?
 A. I have four (4) or more years of experience using a RV Park Management or another alike lodging software system.
 B. I have two (2) to four (4) years of experience using a RV Park Management or another alike lodging software system.
 C. I have less than two (2) years of experience using a RV Park Management or another alike lodging software system.
 D. I possess no experience as stated above.
6. How much experience do you have organizing, planning, administering and conducting indoor/outdoor recreation activities?
 A. I have four (4) or more years of experience with organizing, planning, administering and conducting indoor/outdoor recreation activities.
 B. I have two (2) to four (4) years of experience with organizing, planning, administering and conducting indoor/outdoor recreation activities.
 C. I have less than two (2) years of experience with organizing, planning, administering and conducting indoor/outdoor recreation activities.
 D. I do not have any experience with organizing, planning, administering and conducting indoor/outdoor recreation activities.
7. My experience in maintaining inventories of various types of fixed assets, retail items, supplies and any other item deemed to have cash value can best be described as:
 A. I have been responsible for the overall management of these types of inventories from procurement to disposition.
 B. I have assisted in maintaining all of these types of inventories to include: receiving, counting, etc.
 C. I have assisted in maintaining one of, but not all of these types of inventories.
 D. I have no experience with these types of inventories.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected