Position Title
Psychology Program Manager
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12815264-26-CS Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 14, 2025 to Wednesday, September 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Drivers license requirement
1.
A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
ELIGIBILITY AND QUALIFICATIONS. The following sections are used to determine your eligibility and qualifications for appointment in the Federal Government. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS MAY RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about your eligibility, minimum qualifications, and KSAs (knowledge, skills and abilities) related to this position.


For each task in the following group, choose response below that best describes your experience and/or training. (If you are unable to complete the questionnaire online, darken the oval corresponding to that statement in Section 25 of the Qualifications and Availability Form C). Please select only one letter for each item. A- Yes. B- No.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. I am proficient in basic written and spoken English. (In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to meet the requirements of this position.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Licensure: I am licensed or certified by a state to practice psychology at the doctoral level?
 Yes
 No


3.
Education: I possess a doctoral degree in psychology from a graduate program in psychology accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA). The program was accredited at the time I completed the requirements for my degree. The specialty area of the degree is consistent with the assignment for which I am applying.
 Yes
 No


4.
Education (Internship): I have completed a professional psychology internship that was accredited by the APA at the time I completed the internship.
 Yes
 No


Certification of Understanding - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
EXPERIENCE: The following question pertains to your experience. In additional to meeting the basic requirement, you must possess at least three years of experience as a professional psychologist, with at least one year equivalent to the GS-13 grade level:

In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the professional KSAs:
1. Ability to organize work, set priorities, delegate tasks, and meet multiple deadlines;
2. Knowledge of and ability to utilize evidence based practices and clinical practice guidelines appropriately and ability to guide staff in using these tools;
3. Ability to deal effectively with individuals or groups representing widely divergent backgrounds, interests, and points of view;
4. Skill in managing and directing the work of others to accomplish program goals and objectives;
5. Ability to translate management goals and objectives into well-coordinated and controlled work operations;
6. Ability to establish and monitor production and performance priorities and standards;
7. Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems and to develop and implement solutions that result in sound operation of the program.

I have experience demonstrating possession of advanced practice skills and judgment as described in the paragraph above?
 Yes
 No


6.
CERTIFY: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙