Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Aviation) Unit Aviation Manager - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
FADHA-25-12767082-AO Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Survey Questions
1. My resume contains hours worked per week for each season and position held. For example, 1 year of experience is equivalent to 12 months at 40 hours per week (full-time). Part-time hours are prorated. I understand that I will not receive any credit for a position listed that does not include hours worked per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents (SF-50 or other official document to verify date of birth), transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Only the first two pages of the resume will be used to determine eligibility/qualifications. The first two pages of my resume contains the required information to qualify for the position; I understand that any additional information will not be reviewed.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.
1. I possess a valid Driver's License.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I qualify for the GW/GS-11 level because I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to GW/GS-09 in the federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience qualifying for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Identify the professional aviation work related to Fire/Fuels Management Support you have performed on the job:

 A. Advise fire management officers on aircraft performance, capabilities, limitations, cost-effectiveness and support requirements for firefighting aircraft.
 B. Conduct Fire Readiness Reviews of fire helicopter and fire retardant bases.
 C. Visit permanent and temporary airbases during periods of high fire activity to observe operations, resolve problems, and provide recommendations for safety and improvement.
 D. Coordinate with local, regional and national fire dispatch/coordination offices and/or cooperating agencies or equivalent to establish aircraft priorities, availability, placement and efficient use of firefighting aircraft.
 E. Serve on an Incident Management Team or as miscellaneous overhead in the National Interagency Incident Management System (NIIMS).
 F. None of the above.
4. Indicate your experience level working with Single Engine Air Tankers (SEAT).

 A. I am considered an expert in this field, working with all aspects of the Single Engine Air Tanker program at a national, state and local levels. I have performed as a SEAT Coordinator (SECO) in the field or at NIFC.
 B. I am or have been a Single Engine Airtanker Manager for an Exclusive Use contract and am very familiar with all aspects of the program.
 C. I am or have been a Single Engine Airtanker Manager and have completed multiple fire assignments as a manager with various types of aircraft.
 D. I am familiar with the Single Engine Airtanker Program but am not a Single Engine Air Tanker Manager.
 E. None of the above.
5. Indicate your level of experience writing aviation policy for a local unit.

 A. I am considered the primary individual who writes, reviews, and distributes all of the aviation policy documents for my unit.
 B. I have written some aviation policy for my unit, and I am considered an excellent source of knowledge for aviation policy.
 C. I have a good working knowledge of aviation policy and assist with writing aviation policy for my unit.
 D. I have not written any aviation policy for my unit.
6. Indicate your level of experience managing air base facilities.

 A. I am considered the primary manager designated for the permanent air base facilities located on my unit.
 B. I am the assistant manager or considered the primary backup for the designated air base manager for the permanent facilities located on my unit.
 C. I assist the air base manager as needed during the primary fire season.
 D. I have very little experience with help at air base facilities.
 E. None of the above.
7. Indicate your level of understanding of general aviation policies for federal and state agencies.

 A. I have an excellent understanding of general aviation policies for federal and state agencies or equivalent, strive to stay current with policy changes and updates, and have experience in developing policy at a national level.
 B. I have an excellent understanding of general aviation policies for federal and state agencies or equivalent and strive to stay current with policy changes and updates.
 C. I have a good working knowledge of general aviation policies for federal and state agencies or equivalent, know where to find current updates and changes to policy.
 D. I have a limited knowledge of BLM general aviation policies for federal and state agencies or equivalent.
 E. None of the above.
8. Select the statements below that indicate your specific knowledge and experience regarding the application of aviation services to aerial firefighting, aerial ignition, animal capture, aerial application of chemicals and seed, law enforcement, surveillance, aerial photography, wildlife survey, administrative support and land and minerals management.

 A. Coordinator (Lead Plane) or Air Support Group Supervisor in the Fire Qualifications System and served in such capacity on wildland fire incidents.
 B. I have managed non-fire aviation operations in support of natural resource projects such as animal capture, aerial chemical/seed application, law enforcement, wildlife survey or other land or minerals management activities.
 C. I have procured and assigned appropriate aircraft to fulfill natural resource project needs by performing aircraft performance analysis, best value/cost analysis and risk analysis associated with the completion of Project Aviation Safety Plans.
 D. None of the above.
9. Identify other Air Operations Positions you have experience in or are qualified.

 A. Airtanker Base Manager
 B. Fixed Wing Base Manager
 C. Helibase Manager
 D. MAFFS Airtanker Base Manager
 E. MAFFS Airbase Support Specialist
 F. SEAT Manager
 G. Aviation Project Manager
 H. Call When Needed Helicopter Manager
 I. Exclusive Use Fire Helicopter Manager
 J. Helicopter Crewmember
 K. None of the above
10. Indicate the following tasks related to aviation safety and accident prevention that you have performed as part of a job:

 A. Develop an aviation safety plan for an organization.
 B. Implement an aviation safety plan for an organization
 C. Prepare and/or review Special Use Safety Plans for specific flights and projects to insure hazard and risk mitigation.
 D. Perform risk management assessments of on-going activities, proposed aviation missions, and/or over-all program standards.
 E. Analyze aviation program performance and systems to identify deficiencies.
 F. Initiate change in aviation organizational safety procedures and requirements to improve program performance and systems.
 G. Prepare Aviation Incident/Accident Response Guide for an organization.
 H. Update and disseminate Aviation Incident/Accident Response Guide for use in an organization.
 I. Provide guidance on the use of aircraft during Search and Rescue activities.
 J. Serve as the focal point for submission and review of aviation incident/hazard reports.
 K. Recommend corrective action to management and staff to remedy situations identified in incident/hazard reports.
 L. Provide follow-up on aviation incident/hazard reports to ensure unsafe conditions and operations are rectified.
 M. Prepare unit aviation incident/hazard reports summary, analysis and recommendations on an annual basis.
 N. Provide expertise in the operational planning of aviation activities on or near Military Training Routes or within Special Use Airspace.
 O. Coordinate with military, Federal Aviation Administration and other agency officials to deconflict airspace over public lands.
 P. Coordinate with military, Federal Aviation Administration and other agency officials to prepare cooperative airspace management agreements.
 Q. Perform aviation safety reviews in the field periodically or spontaneously.
 R. Serve as a member of aviation safety teams and accident investigation teams.
 S. None of the above.
11. Select the answer that best describes your level of training to be an instructor for Aviation courses.

 A. I have successfully completed a Facilitative Instructor class or Aviation Train-the-Trainer course and acted as a lead instructor in state or regional level classes.
 B. I have successfully completed a Facilitative Instructor class or Aviation Train-the-Trainer course and acted as a lead instructor in local level classes.
 C. I have successfully completed a Facilitative Instructor class or Aviation Train-the-Trainer course and acted as a unit instructor in local level classes.
 D. I have no formal instructor training but have acted as a unit level instructor in local classes.
 E. I have no instructor training or experience.
12. Select all the statements from below that best describe your experience working as a supervisor, team lead, project manager or reviewing the work of others.

 A. I provide general standing instructions on recurring assignments by indicating what is to be done, applicable policies, procedures and methods to follow, data and information required, quality and quantity of work expected, priority of assignments, and deadlines.
 B. I establish qualitative and quantitative measures for the performance and outcomes of the unit.
 C. I provide specific instructions for new, difficult, or special assignments including suggested procedures, sources of information including the location and type of written material that may be used as an aid in completing the assignment.
 D. I review the work of others for missing or incompatible information.
 E. I assure that finished work and methods used are technically accurate and in compliance with established instructions, methods, procedures, and deadlines.
 F. I assign work with standing instructions on objectives, priorities, and deadlines and provide guidance for unusually involved situations.
 G. I evaluate completed work for overall technical soundness and conformance to agency policies, legal, or system requirements.
 H. I assess the level of customer service provided by my organization.
 I. I provide training to other employees or provide assistance to others who need help with assignments not specifically covered by general instructions or regulations.
 J. None of the above.
13. Select the statement that best describes your experience in establishing work priorities for team members:

 A. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job.
 B. I have limited experience performing this task.
 C. I have no experience performing this task.
14. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected