Position Title
PRIMARY PREVENTION INTEGRATOR (PREV WF)
Agency
Department of the Navy - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
DE-11761366-23-AMW
Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 25, 2024 to Thursday, July 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Defense?

If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or equivalent.
If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim for interagency career transition assistance including 1) a copy of your agency notice, 2) a copy of your most recent performance appraisal, AND 3) a copy of your most recent SF-50 or notification of personnel action that includes position, grade level, and duty location.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible. 
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
A. Yes
B. No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
A. Yuma, AZ
B. Camp Pendleton, CA
C. San Diego, CA
D. Twentynine Palms, CA
E. Camp H.M. Smith Marine Corp Base, HI
F. Kaneohe, HI
G. New Orleans, LA
H. Camp Lejeune, NC
I. Cherry Point, NC
J. Beaufort, SC
K. Fort Myer, VA
L. Norfolk, VA
M. Quantico, VA
2.
Where did you hear about this job? We know you saw this announcement on USAJOBS, but did you hear about it somewhere else first?

Please tell us where you first heard about this job.
--Select--
--Select--
001 Department of the Navy (DON) Agency website/internet
002 Email from the Department of the Navy
003 LinkedIn
004 CareerBuilder.com
005 Indeed.com
006 Monster.com
007 Facebook
008 Twitter
009 USAJOBS website
010 Job Supervisor
011 A Navy/Marine Corps employee, not the position supervisor
012 Friend or Family Member, not a Navy/Marine Corps employee
013 Contract employee
014 College/University Career Placement Office
015 College Alumni
016 Employment Office
017 Newspaper Advertisement
018 Job Career Fair
019 American Association of People with Disabilities
020 National Association of Asian American Professionals
3.
Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?

The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories above, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

For more information see https://www.chcoc.gov/content/political-appointees-and-career-civil-service-positions-4 and https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/oversight-activities/faqs/

If you answer Yes to this question, you must provide your current or past SF50 for the political appointment.
A. Yes
B. No
4.
TIME IN GRADE
Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past.

To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.
A. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. If you are a DoD employee, you can obtain a copy of your SF- 50(s) from My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/
B. No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim. If you are a DoD employee, you can obtain a copy of your SF- 50(s) from MyBiz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/
C. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
D. No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the federal government) so this is not applicable to me.
Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
A. Yes
B. No
2.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a Secret security clearance.
A. Yes
B. No
Assessment 1
1.
Please select one response that best describes how you meet the basic education requirements for the GS-0101, Professional Social Science Series.
  A. I have successfully completed a behavioral or social science degree, or a degree in a related discipline appropriate to the position being filled.
B. I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
C. I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
D. I do not have a behavioral or social science degree, a degree in a related discipline, four years of appropriate experience, or an acceptable combination of education and experience, as described above.
2.
Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0101-12 PRIMARY PREVENTION INTEGRATOR (PREV WF).
A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11) or pay band in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector performing program planning, coordination and implementation; evaluating prevention programs (i.e. evaluating training, education and outreach); advising leadership on prevention methods, assessments and training; establishing prevention activities (i.e. determining goals, objectives, measures of performance and effectiveness, assessments and milestones).
B. I do not have the specialized experience described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
A. Yes
B. No
Terms and Conditions Terms of Use
Freedom of Information (Opens in New Window) FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
USAJOBS.gov (Opens in New Window) USAJOBS.gov
US Office of Personnel Management (Opens in New Window) OPM
USA.gov (Opens in New Window) USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System