Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OPR-DE-12780449-JSH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
3. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
5. Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your specialized experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: working in a Tactical or Emergency Operations Center, developing plans and exercises for Continuity of Operations/Continuity of Government operations, and establishing emergency communications programs.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
7. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
short essay questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Select the option that best describes your experience developing and revising plans that outline emergency management preparedness operating procedures to be used in response to disasters or emergencies, such as hurricanes, nuclear accidents, terrorist attacks, and in recovery from these events.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have developed short range emergency preparedness plans for a small work unit.
 C. I have developed multiple short range emergency preparedness plans for work units within a region.
 D. I have developed multiple short and long-range emergency preparedness plans for work units within a region.
2. Do you have experience interpreting and applying federal, state, and local regulations related to emergency management preparedness plans?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Select the best option that describes your experience providing guidance and technical advice to management staff in all matters relating to emergency management and preparedness.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted and provided input to my superiors regarding resolutions to technical problems.
 C. I have provided guidance and made recommendations to my superiors routinely on policy decisions, and have advised peers and superiors on resolutions to technical problems.
4. Do you have experience altering emergency response procedures based on regulatory changes, technological changes, or knowledge gained from outcomes of previous emergency situations and after action reviews?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Select the option that best describes your experience developing and implementing emergency management standards, regulations, policies, practices, training, and procedures.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have worked on a team to develop materials associated with emergency management plans and procedures.
 C. I have developed emergency management regulations, policies, and procedures.
 D. I have independently developed emergency management regulations and/or polices. I have been responsible for conducting related training and implementing these polices and I have conducted after-action debriefs of the polices and procedures.
6. Select the option that best describes your experience assessing, evaluating, and inspecting emergency management preparedness processes for compliance with established directives, regulations, policies, and laws.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conducted site visits or reviewed the records of other work units to gather information regarding compliance with emergency management directives, regulations, policies, and standards.
 C. I have evaluated data obtained from multiple site visits or record reviews to identify actions needed to reach or sustain compliance with emergency management preparedness directives, regulations, policies, and standards.
 D. I have led an effort to ensure compliance with emergency management preparedness directives, regulations, policies, and standards. I have identified corrective actions and consulted with work units to reach or sustain compliance.
7. Select the choice that best describes your ability to plan, organize, and direct team efforts across organizational lines, including the ability to monitor progress.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have completed assigned project activities as a team member.
 C. I have assigned activities to team members, acted as a team lead by arranging for status updates and team conferences to ensure task completion within my organization.
 D. I have managed multiple team efforts across organizational lines, often with competing priorities as a team lead. I have assigned activities to others, tracked completion, conducted team conferences, provided briefings to all team members and briefed project status to leadership inside and outside of my organization.
8. Select the choice that best describes your ability to establish and maintain liaison with officials from other governments and entities.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with officials from other governments and entities as a liaison.
 C. I have established new relationships and maintained existing relationships with officials from other governments and entities as a liaison.
 D. As a liaison, I have established and maintained relationships with officials from other governments and entities in difficult or contentious situations.
9. Select the choice that best describes your ability to interface with senior management in strategizing, planning, and forecasting activities related to emergency management preparedness.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided input and advice to peers on matters related to emergency management preparedness.
 C. I have provided input and advice to management on matters related to emergency management preparedness as a regular part of my job duties.
 D. I have been designated as the point of contact for others within and outside of the organization to seek me out for my expertise in emergency management preparedness.
10. Select the choice that best describes your level of skill in communicating effectively orally.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated my ideas or other information to individuals or groups primarily within my organization on non-technical matters, using terminology that was familiar to the audience. I have participated in formal group discussions.
 C. I have communicated occasionally with individuals or groups outside of my organization or I have participated actively as a member of my organization or group in discussions, meetings, or team projects where I had to express my ideas or opinions on non-technical matters.
 D. I have represented my organization or group in meetings and dealings with other groups or organizations for the purpose of proposing and gaining acceptance of ideas and explaining or coordinating views regarding complex, technical, or specialized subjects.
11. Select the choice that best describes your level of skill in communicating effectively in writing.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written log entries, routine reports, letters, and memos on non-technical issues.
 C. I have written meeting summaries, drafted responses to requests for information, written informative articles, and have edited the non-technical writings of others.
 D. I have written comprehensive reports, professional documents, policies, procedures, training materials, written materials for conferences, briefings, or speeches and/or professional publications.
 E. I have written materials for professional publications and have had supervisory authority over the written work of others to ensure correctness and completeness of polices, manuals, reports, and documents.
12. Select the choice that best describes your ability to persuade and influence others.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in assembling documentation for presentation to others in an attempt to persuade or influence their decisions
 C. I have prepared and presented a case to my supervisor and my supervisor took action as a result of my recommendations.
 D. I have presented facts and made recommendations to a program office or sector and my recommendations were adopted and implemented.
 E. I have presented recommendations, explained findings and provided justification for recommendations in a persuasive and effective manner to a wide variety of senior officials and individuals within and outside of my organization.
13. Select the choice that best describes your ability to plan schedule and organize major projects, studies, and teams.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have limited experience in planning and organizing work for a small team.
 C. I have planned and organized the day-to-day work of my immediate work unit on a continuous basis.
 D. I have directed and overseen the planning and organization of work for a multi-unit organization. I established criteria and priorities and reviewed, amended, and consolidated work plans developed by subordinates.
 E. I have directed and overseen the mid- to long-range (i.e., quarterly or annual) planning and organization of work for my immediate work unit when there were complicating factors (e.g., conflicting priorities, work involving multiple disciplines).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected