Position Title
Supervisory Inventory Management Specialist
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAAvn-25-12772274-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 1, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Experience with established production methods and material requirements for the support/repair/modification of a variety of aircraft, engines, and related end items; Experience performing Order Fulfillment processes and applications relative to supportability; Experience supervising/managing and leading the work of material management; Experience with various supply and production management automated systems/products and their interrelationships to order fulfillment; and Experience in retail supply functions.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.
2. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with Order Fulfillment.

 A. I have reviewed /analyzed investigations and provided possible solutions to the root cause of material discrepancies associated with order fulfillment
 B. I have assisted with investigations to determine the root cause of material discrepancies associated with order fulfillment
 C. I have initiated/led investigations to determine the root cause of material discrepancies associated with order fulfillment.
 D. None of the above
3. From the following responses, please select the statement that describes your experience with developing and compiling substantiating data in support of filling customer requirements related to order fulfillment.

 A. I have, on a regular and reoccurring basis, developed and compiled substantiating data in support of filling customer requirements related to order fulfillment.
 B. I have assisted with developing and compiling substantiating data
 C. I have knowledge of developing and compiling substantiating data
 D. None of the above
4. Which of the following reflects your experience with creating emergent/gap buy packages?

 A. I have performed research/gathered data/created/submitted and performed follow up actions on Emergent/Gap Buy packages
 B. I have assisted in researching/gathering data/creating and submitting emergent/gap buy packages.
 C. I have provided guidance/training on research/gathering data/creating/submitting and follow up actions required for Emergent/Gap Buy packages
 D. I have an understanding of the Emergent/Gap buy process.
 E. None of the above
5. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your knowledge of supply and production management automated systems/products and their interrelationships.

 A. I have an understanding of supply and production management automated systems/products and their interrelationships.
 B. I have a working knowledge of supply and production management automated systems/products and their interrelationships.
 C. I have a working knowledge of, participate in projects and/or survey of material management operations and provide training on supply and production management automated systems/products and their interrelationships.
 D. None of the above
6. From the following responses, please select the level that best describes your knowledge of determining parts supportability across all sources of supply for established and future local shop workloads/special projects and work to mitigate potential supportability constraints.

 A. I have independently planed, developed, and implemented material support plans that affect a wide range of organizations within the local industrial activity, other DLA locations, commands, services and that have significantly and directly affected customer mission and support capability
 B. I have knowledge of this task
 C. I have assisted higher graded specialists with developing material support plans
 D. None of the above
7. Incumbents will be responsible for facilitating the various meetings that are required in the overall material management process. From the following responses, please select the area that most accurately reflects your experience with hosting meetings.

 A. I have facilitated meetings to define issues related to material management support and assisted in identifying corrective actions
 B. I have selected appropriate meeting participants
 C. I have participated in Material Management Meetings
 D. I have helped to achieve resolution to issues from meetings.
 E. None of the above.
8. From the following responses please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with customer questions.

 A. I have contacted appropriate subject matter experts in order to respond to customer issues
 B. I have independently handled issues or questions from customers concerning supportability and material requirements.
 C. I have had training reviewing automated systems to assist with answering customer questions.
 D. None of the above.
9. Have you received an honorary or monetary award from your employer (government, military, or private sector) during the last 3 years?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. From the list below, select the response which corresponds to the highest level of education you have achieved. Education claimed will be verified prior to selection. If you do not possess or unable to provide proof of education claimed, you may be found ineligible;

 A. I have less than 2 Years of college
 B. I have completed 2 years of College (60 semester hours/90 quarter hours) OR an Associate's degree
 C. I have a Bachelor's Degree or I have completed 4 years of College (120 semester hours/180 quarter hours)
 D. I have a Master's Degree or above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected