Position Title
AUDITOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12780510-AF-T525-3590 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 8, 2025 to Monday, August 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please answer the following questions:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2.

1.To be qualified for this position, you must meet the basic educational and/or work experience requirements for professional auditing positions in the federal government. For this position these minimum requirements include: 1. Degree: A degree in auditing or a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration, or accounting;
OR

2. A combination of education and experience: At least four years of experience in performance auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: a. A certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) or a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), obtained through written examination; OR b. Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours or 22.5 quarter hours). Upload a copy of your transcript(s) or a list of college courses designating semester or quarter hours earned to ensure proper credit. Choose the one answer below which best describes your educational/work experience.

 

 A. I have earned a bachelor's degree in auditing or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration, or accounting.
 B. I have at least four years of experience in performance auditing or a combination of performance auditing experience, college level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. I am also a CPA or CIA, and my credentials are valid and were obtained through a written examination.
 C. I have at least four years of experience in performance auditing or a combination of performance auditing experience, college level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge and have completed the requirements for a degree that included at least 15 semester hours, or 22.5 quarter hours of course work in auditing or accounting.
 D. I do not meet any of the education and/or combination of education and work experience under any of the choices above.
3.

To qualify for this position as a GS-12 you must meet the specialized experience requirements for this position with at least one (1) full year of experience at the GS-11 level, or equivalent. This experience as provided below, should have equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities required to successfully perform the duties of the position. This specialized experience includes:

- Collecting, analyzing, and summarizing audit data to support conclusions; AND

-Researching laws, regulations, guidelines, and approved procedures to support or provide findings; AND

-Participating in pre-audit meetings and post-audit debriefs; AND
- Identifying controls over operations and writing segments of draft reports with summaries, conclusions, and recommendations.

Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the GS-12 specialized experience statement. Carefully review your application and ensure that your response is supported by your resume.

 

 A. I am qualified at the GS-12 level because I have one year or more of GS-11 level or equivalent experience as described above which has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
4.

Provide the job title(s) and dates employed for the position(s) in which you acquired this experience. (Ensure these dates and details can be found in your resume.) (limit 250 characters)

(limit 250 characters)
5.

Indicate which type(s) of audits you have performed.

 

 A. Performance or internal audits
 B. Financial statement audits
 C. Attestations
 D. Circular A-123 reviews or internal reviews
 E. None of the above
6.

Select the choice that best describes your experience in audit standards.

 

 A. I have conducted audit(s) according to Generally Accepted Government Accounting Standards (GAGAS).
 B. I have conducted audits according to Blue Book/Inspection standards.
 C. I have used American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA), Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), or other standards performing audits in the private sector.
 D. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7.

I have experience reviewing the effectiveness of program internal controls and compliance with performance initiatives, policies, and plans.

 

 A. Yes
 B. No
8.

Select which task(s) you have performed on an audit project. Select the most applicable.

 A. I kept supervisors informed of audit progress and results.
 B. I followed up with project team members to ensure audit milestones were met.
 C. I briefed senior program managers on project status.
 D. I coached and mentored project team members to achieve desired results.
 E. None of the above
9.

Describe the task(s) you completed in response to performance audit projects. Select the most applicable.

 

 A. Developed the audit plan
 B. Determined the appropriate tests to apply during the verification phase
 C. Communicated with the audit client throughout the audit
 D. Tracked and reported on the completion of audit milestones
 E. Worked with project team members to meet audit milestones
 F. Led audit entrance, status, and exit briefings with senior managers
 G. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected