Position Title
Supervisory Security Specialist
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
SCP-KR-12804353-25-SS Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current United States Secret Service employee in the competitive service?

To verify eligibility, as a CURRENT Secret Service Employee you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50); and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, include promotions and with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 A. Yes
 B. No
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
3. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Security Specialist position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Specialist at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes analyzing security information and conducting studies to develop and recommend policies and procedures to enhance operational efficiency; providing advice and guidance to stake holders on the implementation of security countermeasures; conducting facility security assessments to mitigate security risks ensuring continuity of operations; and supervising or leading a staff to plan, direct and coordinate the work of others
 B. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.
2. Select the statement which best describes your knowledge of and experience in facility security to include compliance with interagency security requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience with administrative security to include the proper classification of documents and information.
 B. I have knowledge of administrative security and the proper handling of classified documents and information.
 C. I have extensive knowledge of administrative security to include the proper classification of documents and information, and the appropriate handling of such information.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of administrative security to include the proper classification of documents and information, and the appropriate handling of such information and have provided advice to other offices on the subject.
 E. I am recognized as an expert on administrative security, have provided advice to others on the subject; have developed facility security plans; have trained and instructed peers and subordinates.
3. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience protecting classified and/or sensitive information according to policy and procedures.

 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
4. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience providing guidance and technical advice on alternative solutions or approaches to security procedures and practices.

 A. I have no education, training, or experience performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task independently and as a regular part of my job.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task, or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
5. Select the statement that best describes your experience in recommending changes to security policies, procedures, or systems used on the job.

 A. I have no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made routine recommendations to my supervisor for minor changes to current policies, procedures, or systems.
 C. I have made significant recommendations for changes to streamline or enhance the utilization and application of policies, procedures, or systems.
 D. I have made significant recommendations for changes to streamline or enhance the utilization and application of policies, procedures, or systems, and I have assisted in implementing these recommendations.
6. From the list below select the statement that best describes your training or experience analyzing information contained in administrative and information security programs.

 A. I have not had training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
7. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience conducting threat analyses, evaluating the effectiveness of current systems and consulting with senior staff to balance security objectives.

 A. I have no education, training, or experience performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task independently and as a regular part of my job.
 E. I have served as the technical expert authority on this task, providing guidance and/or supervision to others.
8. Indicate the extent to which you have resolved complex security issues in a professional and timely manner.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated complex security issues to other employees who provided assistance.
 C. I have assessed security issues and provided assistance to resolve routine problems.
 D. I have assessed and personally provided assistance to resolve complex or controversial security problems.
9. From the list below select the statements that describe your role in identifying security related problems or deficiencies.
 A. Served as a central point of contact to provide authoritative explanations on problems or deficiencies.
 B. Researched and resolved most problems independently.
 C. Identified problems and unusual situations, and referred them to the appropriate person for resolution.
 D. Resolved most problems and used judgment when to refer complex issues to a higher level.
 E. None of the above.
10. From the list below select all of the statements that demonstrate the communication skills you have used as a regular part of your job.
 A. Answer external inquires regarding the technical security process.
 B. Participate in interviews with technical working groups.
 C. Communicate strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities to peers.
 D. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations.
 E. Persuade others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action.
 F. Present material at national, professional organization meetings.
 G. Interview individuals to acquire specific information.
 H. Training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension.
 I. Brief managers/executives outside of my employing organization.
 J. Brief managers/executives within my employing organization.
 K. Present material to community organizations.
 L. None of the above
11. From the list below select the statement that best describes your presentation experience as it relates to security problems or deficiencies.

 A. Developing and presenting security briefings at meetings and/or conferences.
 B. Routinely briefing high level officials on complex security issues, proposing regulations, and recommending improvements in content or direction regarding administrative program areas.
 C. Routinely representing my agency at meetings to communicate organizational strategies, goals, objective, or priorities on security issues.
 D. None of the above
12. From the list below, select all the supervisory or leadership duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set, and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. I have been responsible for first line supervision to employees.
 D. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work.
 E. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 F. I have interviewed candidates for positions.
 G. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 H. I have addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions.
 I. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervisor.
 J. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve.
 K. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks.
13. From the list below select the statements that demonstrate the leadership functions you have performed for a project or program.
 A. Served as a supervisor, team leader, or project coordinator (formally, informally, or in an acting or temporary capacity).
 B. Coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results.
 C. Evaluated the effectiveness of a complete project or program goal.
 D. Followed-up with colleagues, team members, and others to ensure timeliness in meeting milestones.
 E. Coordinated work assignments to be assigned to colleagues, team members, and others.
 F. Reported progress to senior management.
 G. Resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among colleagues, team members, and others.
 H. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness.
 I. None of the above
14. From the choices below, select the response(s) that describe your experience managing employee performance, conduct issues, unresolved complaints and/or grievances.
 A. Resolve complaints from individual employees varying in severity.
 B. Resolve complaints from groups of employees varying in severity.
 C. Effect disciplinary actions of varying severity such as warnings, reprimands, or suspensions to address employee behavior.
 D. Develop performance standards to track and evaluate the progress and quality of work of employees with demonstrated performance problems.
 E. Complete performance-based corrective actions.
 F. None of the above.
15. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience implementing new and improved security methods.

 A. I have no education, training, or experience performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task independently and as a regular part of my job.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task, or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
16. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience in recommending changes to program policies, procedures, or systems.

 A. I have no knowledge or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made routine recommendations to my supervisor for minor changes to current policies, procedures, or systems.
 C. I have made significant recommendations for changes to streamline or enhance the utilization and application of policies, procedures, or systems.
 D. I have made significant recommendations for changes to streamline or enhance the utilization and application of policies, procedures, or systems, and I have assisted in implementing these recommendations.
17. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience identifying program issues and developing plans and recommendations for management evaluation to enhance a security program.

 A. I have had no experience performing this task.
 B. I have worked as part of a group that was tasked with identifying program issues and developing plans and recommendations for management.
 C. I have led a team of coworkers that was tasked with identifying program issues and developing plans and recommendations for management.
 D. I have had experience identifying program issues and am regularly relied upon by management to make recommendations to improve or enhance program efficiencies.
18. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience coordinating with appropriate stakeholders regarding serious findings and briefing senior management and government security officials regarding assessment or inspection results.

 A. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have had training in performing the task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 E. I have not had training or experience in performing this task.
19. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected