Position Title
Veterinary Medical Officer
Agency
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
Announcement Number
DH-12795933-25-AC Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
Search 
No matches found
Broward County, FL
Miami-Dade County, FL
Monroe County, FL
Allen County, IN
Kosciusko County, IN
Lagrange County, IN
Noble County, IN
Steuben County, IN
Whitley County, IN
Allen County, KS
Anderson County, KS
Atchison County, KS
Barber County, KS
Barton County, KS
Bourbon County, KS
Brown County, KS
Butler County, KS
Chase County, KS
Chautauqua County, KS
Cherokee County, KS
Cheyenne County, KS
Clark County, KS
Clay County, KS
Cloud County, KS
Coffey County, KS
Comanche County, KS
Cowley County, KS
Crawford County, KS
Decatur County, KS
Dickinson County, KS
Doniphan County, KS
Douglas County, KS
Edwards County, KS
Elk County, KS
Ellis County, KS
Ellsworth County, KS
Finney County, KS
Ford County, KS
Franklin County, KS
Geary County, KS
Gove County, KS
Graham County, KS
Grant County, KS
Gray County, KS
Greeley County, KS
Greenwood County, KS
Hamilton County, KS
Harper County, KS
Harvey County, KS
Haskell County, KS
Hodgeman County, KS
Jackson County, KS
Jefferson County, KS
Jewell County, KS
Johnson County, KS
Kearny County, KS
Kingman County, KS
Kiowa County, KS
Labette County, KS
Lane County, KS
Leavenworth County, KS
Lincoln County, KS
Linn County, KS
Logan County, KS
Lyon County, KS
Marion County, KS
Marshall County, KS
McPherson County, KS
Meade County, KS
Miami County, KS
Mitchell County, KS
Montgomery County, KS
Morris County, KS
Morton County, KS
Nemaha County, KS
Neosho County, KS
Ness County, KS
Norton County, KS
Osage County, KS
Osborne County, KS
Ottawa County, KS
Pawnee County, KS
Phillips County, KS
Pottawatomie County, KS
Pratt County, KS
Rawlins County, KS
Reno County, KS
Republic County, KS
Rice County, KS
Riley County, KS
Rooks County, KS
Rush County, KS
Russell County, KS
Saline County, KS
Scott County, KS
Sedgwick County, KS
Seward County, KS
Shawnee County, KS
Sheridan County, KS
Sherman County, KS
Smith County, KS
Stafford County, KS
Stanton County, KS
Stevens County, KS
Sumner County, KS
Thomas County, KS
Trego County, KS
Wabaunsee County, KS
Wallace County, KS
Washington County, KS
Wichita County, KS
Wilson County, KS
Woodson County, KS
Wyandotte County, KS
Ascension County, LA
East Baton Rouge County, LA
Iberville County, LA
Jefferson County, LA
Orleans County, LA
Saint Bernard County, LA
Saint Charles County, LA
Saint Tammany County, LA
West Baton Rouge County, LA
Middlesex County, MA
Worcester County, MA
Hillsdale County, MI
Ingham County, MI
Isabella County, MI
Kent County, MI
Macomb County, MI
Oakland County, MI
Saginaw County, MI
Washtenaw County, MI
Wayne County, MI
Boone County, MO
Cole County, MO
Hillsborough County, NH
Merrimack County, NH
Rockingham County, NH
Burlington County, NJ
Camden County, NJ
Mercer County, NJ
Monmouth County, NJ
Ocean County, NJ
Bronx County, NY
Cayuga County, NY
Kings County, NY
Monroe County, NY
Nassau County, NY
New York County, NY
Onondaga County, NY
Ontario County, NY
Queens County, NY
Richmond County, NY
Rockland County, NY
Seneca County, NY
Suffolk County, NY
Wayne County, NY
Westchester County, NY
Yates County, NY
Chatham County, NC
Durham County, NC
Franklin County, NC
Johnston County, NC
Wake County, NC
Ashland County, OH
Belmont County, OH
Carroll County, OH
Columbiana County, OH
Coshocton County, OH
Crawford County, OH
Cuyahoga County, OH
Delaware County, OH
Fairfield County, OH
Franklin County, OH
Geauga County, OH
Guernsey County, OH
Harrison County, OH
Holmes County, OH
Huron County, OH
Jefferson County, OH
Knox County, OH
Licking County, OH
Lorain County, OH
Madison County, OH
Mahoning County, OH
Marion County, OH
Medina County, OH
Morrow County, OH
Muskingum County, OH
Perry County, OH
Pickaway County, OH
Portage County, OH
Richland County, OH
Stark County, OH
Summit County, OH
Trumbull County, OH
Tuscarawas County, OH
Union County, OH
Wayne County, OH
Clackamas County, OR
Linn County, OR
Marion County, OR
Multnomah County, OR
Washington County, OR
Adams County, PA
Allegheny County, PA
Berks County, PA
Bucks County, PA
Carbon County, PA
Chester County, PA
Cumberland County, PA
Dauphin County, PA
Delaware County, PA
Lancaster County, PA
Lehigh County, PA
Monroe County, PA
Montgomery County, PA
Northampton County, PA
Perry County, PA
Philadelphia County, PA
Pike County, PA
Schuylkill County, PA
Westmoreland County, PA
York County, PA
Anderson County, TN
Bedford County, TN
Benton County, TN
Bledsoe County, TN
Blount County, TN
Bradley County, TN
Campbell County, TN
Cannon County, TN
Carroll County, TN
Carter County, TN
Cheatham County, TN
Chester County, TN
Claiborne County, TN
Clay County, TN
Cocke County, TN
Coffee County, TN
Crockett County, TN
Cumberland County, TN
Davidson County, TN
De Kalb County, TN
Decatur County, TN
Dickson County, TN
Dyer County, TN
Fayette County, TN
Fentress County, TN
Franklin County, TN
Gibson County, TN
Giles County, TN
Grainger County, TN
Greene County, TN
Grundy County, TN
Hamblen County, TN
Hamilton County, TN
Hancock County, TN
Hardeman County, TN
Hardin County, TN
Hawkins County, TN
Haywood County, TN
Henderson County, TN
Henry County, TN
Hickman County, TN
Houston County, TN
Humphreys County, TN
Jackson County, TN
Jefferson County, TN
Johnson County, TN
Knox County, TN
Lake County, TN
Lauderdale County, TN
Lawrence County, TN
Lewis County, TN
Lincoln County, TN
Loudon County, TN
Macon County, TN
Madison County, TN
Marion County, TN
Marshall County, TN
Maury County, TN
McMinn County, TN
McNairy County, TN
Meigs County, TN
Monroe County, TN
Montgomery County, TN
Moore County, TN
Morgan County, TN
Obion County, TN
Overton County, TN
Perry County, TN
Pickett County, TN
Polk County, TN
Putnam County, TN
Rhea County, TN
Roane County, TN
Robertson County, TN
Rutherford County, TN
Scott County, TN
Sequatchie County, TN
Sevier County, TN
Shelby County, TN
Smith County, TN
Stewart County, TN
Sullivan County, TN
Sumner County, TN
Tipton County, TN
Trousdale County, TN
Unicoi County, TN
Union County, TN
Van Buren County, TN
Warren County, TN
Washington County, TN
Wayne County, TN
Weakley County, TN
White County, TN
Williamson County, TN
Wilson County, TN
Atascosa County, TX
Bandera County, TX
Bexar County, TX
Collin County, TX
Dallas County, TX
Denton County, TX
Ellis County, TX
Grayson County, TX
Guadalupe County, TX
Henderson County, TX
Kaufman County, TX
Kendall County, TX
Medina County, TX
Rains County, TX
Rockwall County, TX
San Antonio, TX
Smith County, TX
Tarrant County, TX
Wilson County, TX
Clark County, WA
Cowlitz County, WA
Lewis County, WA
Thurston County, WA
Ashland County, WI
Barron County, WI
Burnett County, WI
Chippewa County, WI
Douglas County, WI
Dunn County, WI
Pierce County, WI
Polk County, WI
Saint Croix County, WI
Sawyer County, WI
Washburn County, WI
2. Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal or FSA County Annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you ever received a voluntary separation incentive payment (VSIP or buyout) to leave the Federal civilian service or FSA County position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former: Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a federal employee receiving a recruitment, relocation, retention and/or other incentive payment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Once a selection is made for this position, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with other hiring managers in the agency who have similar vacancies. Please opt in below if you're willing to have your name, application material, and assessment results shared to be considered for additional, similar positions. There is no guarantee for further consideration.
 A. Opt-in: Please share my name, application material, and assessment results with additional hiring managers within the agency for similar positions.
 B. Opt-out: I only want to be considered for positions associated with this specific application.
Core Questions
1. Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume or OF-612?

If yes, please type Yes.
If no, please type No and include the following in your response for all positions held: position title, employer, dates employed (MM/DD/YY), work schedule (i.e., Full-Time (FT), Part-Time (PT), etc.), and hours/week. Please list in order with current/most recent position first.
Failure to provide all requested information may prevent us from giving credit for experience.
2. I understand for information on the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I (the applicant) must inquire through USAJOBS. No separate notification will be sent to me. To view the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I must go to the USAJOBS website and log into My Account. Once in My Account, I must enter the "Application Status" section of the website.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, 50B, performance appraisal may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you possess a current driver's license from one of the 50 states or the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico or territories or possessions of the United States?

If you respond yes to this question and you are interviewed, you must be prepared to present your driver's license as confirmation.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. 0701 Series Basic Requirement - Choose the one answer that best describes your education.

 A. I have successfully obtained a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine or equivalent degree at a school accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education.
 B. I am a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical school which is not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education who meets the requirements listed below under "Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools."
 C. I do not meet either of the requirements as described above.
Proof of Meeting Basic Education Requirement: All applicants must submit the following documents as proof of meeting the basic education requirement: * Copies of college transcripts (translated into English) showing a conferred Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) or equivalent degree and, if applicable, proof of meeting qualifications for graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools and proof of English language proficiency.
Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools: A. Education certification: Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education must furnish proof of meeting one of the following requirements: * Proof of certification of their final transcript by the Educational Commission for Foreign Veterinary Graduates (ECFVG). * Possession of a permanent, full, and unrestricted license to practice veterinary medicine in a state, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States that includes successful completion of the North American Veterinary Licensing Examination (NAVLE) or its predecessors, the National Board Examination (NBE) and the Clinical Competency Test (CCT). * Proof that the education obtained in a foreign veterinary medical program is equivalent to that gained in a veterinary medical program that is accredited by the AVMA Council on Education. An AVMA-accredited veterinary medical school or college must have accepted the final transcript from the foreign veterinary medical school at full value for placement into an advanced degree, postgraduate educational program or training program (e.g., residency or graduate program). B. English language proficiency: Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education must submit certification of successful completion of one of the nationally and internationally recognized examinations that assess English language proficiency, including: Option 1. Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) * Paper-based version minimum score is 560 * Computer-based version minimum score is 220 * Internet-based version minimum score is an overall score of 83 (including 26 or higher in speaking, 26 or higher in listening, and 17 or higher in writing). Applicants who took the computer-based or paper-based test versions must also have completed the Test of Spoken English (TSE) with a minimum score of 55 and the Test of Written English (TWE) with a minimum score of 5.5. OR Option 2. International English Language Testing System (IELTS) with: * Overall band score of 7.0 * Minimum score of 7.0 in speaking * Minimum score of 6.5 in listening * Minimum score of 6.0 in writing OR Option 3. Canadian English Language Assessment (CAEL) with: * Minimum overall band score of 70 * Minimum score of 60 in speaking * Minimum score of 60 in listening * Minimum score of 50 in writing
2. Graduates of Foreign Veterinary Schools who qualifies for the English language proficiency test waiver: I understand that I will be required to submit a diploma or other documentation as proof of graduation from a qualifying high (secondary) school before entering on duty, if selected.
 A. Yes, I understand that I need to provide a diploma or other documentation as a graduate of a qualifying high (secondary) school
 B. No, I do not qualify for the English language proficiency waiver and understand that I need to submit further proof of proficiency as described in "Documents Required"
 C. Not applicable, I am not a graduate of a foreign veterinary school and do not need to provide a diploma or other documentation
3. Graduates of foreign veterinary schools who qualify for the waiver in question 2: Please state the country in which you were born.

4. Graduates of Foreign Veterinary Schools: I am a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical program who qualifies for a waiver of the English language proficiency test requirement because the native language of my country of birth is English and I graduated from a high (secondary) school where the entire curriculum and educational programs were taught in English for the entire 3 or 4 years of attendance.
 A. Yes, I am a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical program who qualifies for a waiver of the English language proficiency test requirement, and I understand I need to submit the above documentation.
 B. No, I am a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical program who does not qualify for a waiver of the English language proficiency test requirement
 C. Not applicable, I am a graduate of an AVMA accredited veterinary medical school and do not need to provide further proof of English language proficiency
5. If you are a graduate of a foreign veterinary school who qualifies for the English language proficiency test waiver, please state the country in which you were born. Otherwise, please put "Not Applicable"

6. GS-12 - In addition to the basic requirement, choose the one answer that best describes your experience.

 A. I possess at least one year of progressively responsible veterinary experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service that demonstrates the ability to independently perform the veterinary medical duties required of the position.
 B. I possess a Master’s degree from an accredited college or school in an area of specialization, including but not limited to, animal science, avian medicine, food safety, infectious diseases, veterinary clinical sciences, pathobiology, biomedical sciences, veterinary anatomy, veterinary preventive medicine, comparative biological sciences, epidemiology, veterinary parasitology, molecular veterinary biosciences, public health, microbiology, pathology, immunology, laboratory animal medicine, toxicology, wildlife, zoological animal medicine, or sciences related to the work of a veterinary medical officer position.
 C. I have successfully completed two years of an internship, residency program, or fellowship training program in a discipline related to the position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
7. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding "no" to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected