Position Title
Patient Representative
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12808612-26-ESN Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 9, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the GS-0301-09/11 Patient Representative position. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. 

Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire, for your responses are subject to verification. 

Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the qualification requirements as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Specialized Experience GS-09: Specialized Experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Applicants may qualify for this position by using their work experience, education, or a combination of both experience and education.

To qualify for this position, applicants must have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade of GS-07 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience for this position includes but is not limited to...thorough knowledge of Federal Laws, VA eligibility regulations and directives governing medical benefits for Veterans and changes which affect these benefits; comprehensive knowledge of the principles and practices, federal laws, regulations, policies and procedures governing eligibility, benefits, care, access, services, clinical appeals, and privacy and skill in applying this extensive knowledge to the most difficult and complex problems; knowledge of medical terminology and VA nomenclature used with a variety of administrative, diagnostic, and treatment procedures provided to all categories of patients; knowledge of various Public Laws as well as the Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, Advance Directives Act; skilled in communicating effectively, orally, and in writing with a wide range of internal and external customers of the VA Medical Facility; skilled in conducting interviews in the routine daily encounters with patients, family members, staff members, and external organization that intercede on behalf of patients; and the ability to effectively review and interpret information contained in medical and administrative records...OR,

Education GS-09: Applicants may also qualify for this position using their education. Applicants are required to have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related...OR

Combination: Applicants may also qualify for this position using a combination of experience and education beyond the post-high school level of education.

NOTE: All experience must be clearly stated and described on your resume to include dates of employments (month/year) and hours worked. Failure to do so may disqualify you for this position. If you are basing your experience on education requirements, you must provide a copy of your transcript(s) from an accredited college or university. Failure to submit a complete resume as stated above or a transcript, if applicable, may result in a disqualified rating.

Do you possess the specialized experience for this position at the GS-09 level?
 Yes
 No


2.
Specialized Experience GS-11: Specialized Experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Applicants may qualify for this position by using their work experience, education, or a combination of both experience and education.

To qualify for this position, applicants must have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade of GS-09 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience for this position includes but is not limited to...knowledgeable of hospital systems to effectively address services which are responsible for patient concerns; thorough knowledge of Federal Laws, VA eligibility regulations and directives governing medical benefits for Veterans and changes which affect these benefits, facility policies, procedures, and organizational structure, services available and capabilities of clinics; comprehensive knowledge of the principles and practices, federal laws, regulations, policies and procedures governing eligibility, benefits, care, access, services, clinical appeals, and privacy and skill in applying this extensive knowledge to the most difficult and complex problems; knowledge of medical terminology and VA nomenclature used with a variety of administrative, diagnostic, and treatment procedures provided to all categories of patients; thorough knowledge of various Public Laws as well as the Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, and Advance Directives Act and others are required; comprehensive knowledge of major issues, program goals and objectives, work processes, and administrative operations of the medical facility to evaluate and recommend solutions to measure, evaluate, and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of key medical center operations that have or may have a significant impact of the patient experience; comprehensive knowledge of programs, services and support resources available to patients and their caregivers; high degree of skill in oral and written communication as well as interpersonal relations; possess skills in motivational interviewing; knowledge of the process of inquiry; and knowledge of active listening principles and record keeping techniques; analytical and evaluative skills and techniques to plan and conduct comprehensive studies and evaluations that result in the development and recommendation of new or modified workflows, processes, policies, procedures, and guidelines in key areas impacting overall patient experience is required; and the ability to effectively review and interpret information contained in medical and administrative records...OR,

Education GS-11: Applicants may also qualify for this position using their education. Applicants are required to have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related...OR,

Combination: Applicants may also qualify for this position using a combination of experience and education beyond the post-high school level of education.

NOTE: All experience must be clearly stated and described on your resume to include dates of employments (month/year) and hours worked. Failure to do so may disqualify you for this position. If you are basing your experience on education requirements, you must provide a copy of your transcript(s) from an accredited college or university. Failure to submit a complete resume as stated above or a transcript, if applicable, may result in a disqualified rating.

Do you possess the specialized experience for this position at the GS-11 level?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙