Position Title
Industrial Hygienist
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJA258211428353HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 22, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
11
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Industrial Hygienist position with Department of the Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or certification that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Industrial Hygienist at the GS-7, GS-9 or GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have a bachelor’s or graduate (or higher level) degree in- science and technology, industrial hygiene, occupational health sciences, occupational and environmental health, toxicology, safety sciences, or a related science. My education was accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 B. I have a bachelor’s degree in a branch of engineering, physical science, or life science that included 12 semester hours in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours of courses in any combination of chemistry, physics, engineering, health physics, environmental health, biostatistics, biology, physiology, toxicology, epidemiology, or industrial hygiene. My education was accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. For engineering degrees to be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have a certification from the American Board of Industrial Hygiene (ABIH). (Note: You must attach a copy of your certification.)
 D. I do not possess the education and/or certification described above.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Industrial Hygienist at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) assisting with planning inspections; 2) assisting with the implement of occupational health programs, or 3) using office automation to prepare reports.
 B. I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate level education in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position, such as industrial hygiene, occupational health sciences, occupational and environmental health, toxicology, safety sciences, or a related science. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I am claiming Superior Academic Achievement. In order to be creditable under this provision, Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled, such as that identified in B above. Superior Academic Achievement is based on: • (1) Class Standing - You must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR • (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) - You must have a grade-point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR • (3) Honor Society Membership - You may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achshonor.org/). (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or verification of class standing for further verification.)
 D. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate level education as described in B, but less than the required one year. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 F. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
3. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Industrial Hygienist at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) assisting in identifying and evaluating health hazards; 2) investigating health problems, and 3) determining the probable cause, and/or recommending solutions.
 B. I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as industrial hygiene, occupational health sciences, occupational and environmental health, toxicology, safety sciences, or a related science. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
4. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Industrial Hygienist at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) conducting assessments of areas ensuring compliance with regulations; 2) utilizing industrial hygiene equipment; 3) reviewing the hazardous records and chemical inventory to ensure compliance; and 4) providing training on various industrial hygiene topics such as hazard communication, respiration selection, usage and care; or chemical health hazards, within existing guidelines.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as industrial hygiene, occupational health sciences, occupational and environmental health, toxicology, safety sciences, or a related science. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
5. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that, if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected