Position Title
Human Resources Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
FFR25-0737 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Friday, August 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the minimum qualifications for the position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do any of the following statements apply to you? **Documents must be submitted at the time of application for consideration**

A.  My spouse is an active-duty military member stationed at CFAY, and my name is on my spouse's orders/ family entry approval. I will submit both documents. 
B.  I am a dependent of an active-duty military member stationed at CFAY, and my name is on my sponsor's orders/family entry approval. I will submit both documents. 
C.  I am an approved dependent of a civilian federal employee employed at CFAY, and my name is listed on their letter of employment (LOE). I will submit an LOE. 
D.  I am currently employed at Commander Fleet Activities Yokosuka and have an unexpired letter of employment (LOE). I will submit my LOE.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I possess three years of experience applying technical HR principles, concepts, and practices and process. A qualified candidate will have experience in any of the following HR Functions: Recruitment and Staffing; Benefits Administration; Worker's Compensation; Pay and Compensation; Employee Relations, Position Classification and Performance Development. 
OR 
Have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree in a related field (i.e., Business Administration, Human Resource Management, Public Administration, etc.); or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I have knowledge of Human Resource programs: Recruiting and Staffing, Employee Relations, Benefits Administration, Worker's Compensation and Human Resources Information System.
 A. I have experience in all 5 Human Resource program areas at the Specialist level or above.
 B. I have experience in all 5 Human Resource program areas at the Assistant level OR Experience in 3 of the 5 program areas at the Specialist level or above.
 C. Experience in 3 of the 5 Human Resource program areas at the Assistant level OR Experience in 2 of the 5 program areas at the Specialist level or above.
 D. Experience in 2 of the 5 Human Resource program areas at the Assistant level OR Experience in 1 of the 5 program areas at the Specialist level or above.
 E. I do not have any experience in any Human Resources program.
4. Experience interpreting laws, regulations, instructions and policies.
 A. Experience interpreting laws, instructions, regulations and policies within NAF HR program.
 B. Experience interpreting the laws instructions, regulations and policies within any other Federal HR program.
 C. Experience with advising employees and supervisors on HR staff members.
 D. I do not have any of the experience mentioned above.
5. Experience in CNIC Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Human Resources.
 A. I have worked in a CNIC NAF Human Resources Office previously.
 B. I have worked in a DoD NAF Human Resources Office previously.
 C. I have experience working as a Human Resources staff in other federal or private sector agency.
 D. I do not have any of the experience mentioned above.
6. Experience providing advice and assistance and interpreting policy and regulations related to employee relations.
 A. I have experience providing advice and guidance to managers on the most complex employee relations issues with no oversight (lead SME in ER).
 B. I have experience providing advice and guidance to managers on the most complex employee relations issues with oversight.
 C. I have experience providing advice and guidance to managers on some employee relations issues.
 D. I do not have any of the experience mentioned above.
7. Experience providing advice and assistance and performing tasks associated with benefits program administration.
 A. I have experience providing guidance on all aspects of a benefits program: leave administration, retirement annuity, TSP or 401k, workers compensation, and insurances (all 5).
 B. I have experience providing guidance on most aspects of a benefits program: leave administration, retirement annuity, TSP or 401k, workers compensation, and insurances (3 of 5).
 C. I have experience providing guidance on some aspect of a benefits program: leave administration, retirement annuity, TSP or 401k, workers compensation, and insurances (1 of 5).
 D. I do not have the experience mentioned above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected