Position Title
IT Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20250506-22890-002379-AO-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 8, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: YOUR RESPONSE TO THE FOLLOWING BASIC QUALIFICATION QUESTION(S) MUST BE SUPPORTED IN YOUR RESUME. FAILURE TO SUPPORT YOUR ANSWER(S) IN YOUR RESUME MAY IMPACT YOU OR ELIMINATE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION.

1. GS-11 - Choose one answer that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position:
 A. I have at least 1 year of experience (at the GS-9 level or higher, if in the Federal service) administering a variety of educational service programs; providing educational counseling and assistance; managing an educational resources center; and administering a variety of tests.
 B. In addition to meeting the basic requirements, I have 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 C. I have a combination of experience and education.
 D. I do not possess any of the above.
YOUR RESPONSE TO THE FOLLOWING BASIC QUALIFICATION QUESTION(S) MUST BE SUPPORTED IN YOUR RESUME. FAILURE TO SUPPORT YOUR ANSWER(S) IN YOUR RESUME MAY IMPACT YOU OR ELIMINATE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION.
2. Select the server administration tasks you have performed.
 A. Installed application and operating system patches
 B. Upgraded and installed Microsoft Server 2019 and Windows 10 Operating Systems
 C. Managed objects in a Microsoft Active Directory Organizational Unit
 D. Troubleshot print server
 E. Monitored event logs
 F. Troubleshot domain controller related issues
 G. Managed backup and restore operations
 H. Managed space on servers
 I. Troubleshot Cisco Virtual Private Network
 J. Troubleshot Office 365 applications
 K. None of the above
3. Have you performed hardware upgrades on firmware for switches, routers, firewalls, servers, or printers?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Select the hardware tasks you have performed.
 A. Configured RAID (Redundant Array of Intelligent Drives) arrays
 B. Troubleshot Network Interface Cards
 C. Replaced video components
 D. Flashed BIOS (Basic Input/output System)
 E. Troubleshot network printers
 F. Troubleshot network scanners
 G. Troubleshot network switches
 H. Managed Wireless networks.
 I. Managed Satellite based wireless LAN i.e. KHV or Starlink
 J. None of the above
5. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience resolving technical user issues (e.g., computer hardware and software) in a call center or help desk environment?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
6. Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience managing multiple assignments while maintaining good customer service.
 A. I have experience in working effectively under pressure where fluctuating deadlines and priorities often occur, while maintaining a customer service focus, meeting deadlines and solving program issues concurrently.
 B. I have experience in working effectively under pressure to complete accurate, timely, and technically sound data while providing good customer service, and meeting deadlines.
 C. I have experience in accomplishing tasks, however customer service has not been a requirement.
 D. None of the above
7. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interpreting information technology (IT) policies, standards, and guidelines?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
8. Select the types of software applications you have used independently to perform work activities.
 A. Word Processing (e.g., MS Word, Corel WordPerfect)
 B. Database (e.g., MS Access, MySQL, Oracle, Report Net)
 C. Spreadsheet (e.g., MS Excel)
 D. Presentation (e.g., MS PowerPoint)
 E. Communications/Information Management (e.g., MS Outlook), Sharepoint,
 F. None of the above
9. Which of the following best describes your experience identifying and resolving user concerns regarding an information technology system or application?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
10. Select the user administration activities you performed for an information technology system.
 A. Granted access
 B. Backed up data
 C. Recovered data
 D. Customized system configurations
 E. None of the above
11. Select the areas in which you have experience troubleshooting and resolving problems.
 A. Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) circuits used for videoconferencing
 B. Audio, video and control system cabling
 C. Local Area Network (LAN) connectivity
 D. Audio systems (i.e., amplifiers, mixers, microphones and speakers)
 E. Audio/video switchers
 F. Video displays (i.e., LCD Projectors, CRT and Plasma monitors)
 G. Videoconferencing endpoint systems (i.e., Polycom and Tandberg)
 H. Videoconferencing multipoint control units (MCUs) and associated software (i.e., Polycom MGC)
 I. Audio/visual control systems (i.e., AMX)
 J. None of the above
12. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience analyzing and resolving problems due to changing hardware/software requirements?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
13. I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected