Position Title
POLICE OFFICER T32
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
AZ-12753411-25-SW-25-077T Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 20, 2025 to Saturday, July 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current member of the Arizona Air National Guard?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you possess the rank of SSgt/E5 - MSgt/E7?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you possess the AFSC of 3P051?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you possess a secret security clearance?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Experience that provided knowledge of a body of basic laws and regulations, law enforcement operations, practices, and techniques and involved responsibility for maintaining order and protecting life and property. Creditable specialized experience may have been gained in work on a police force; through service as a military police officer; in work providing visitor protection and law enforcement in parks, forests, or other natural resource or recreational environments; in performing criminal investigative duties; or in other work that provided the required knowledge and skills.

Do you meet the above qualification standards?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. The individual selected will receive an Indefinite Appointment and may be converted to permanent based on availability of funds or position no longer being encumbered.  

Please select the appropriate response for consideration?
 A. I have read and understand the terms as stated above and would like to be considered for the position.
 B. I have read and understand the terms as stated above and would not like to be considered for the position.
7. Selective Factors:

1. Current U.S. citizenship, naturalized citizen or permanent resident.
2. Males born after 12/31/1959 must be registered with selective service.
3. Must possess a valid state driver's license to operate government motor vehicles (GMV) in accordance with AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.
4. Never convicted of domestic violence IAW the Lautenberg Amendment.
5. No history of excessive alcohol use or arrested in the past two years for two or more alcohol related incidents regardless of disposition, except when proven not guilty.
6. No more than one active wage garnishment for delinquency.
7. No more than two delinquent charge off/collection (>= 30 days) payments within last two years.
8. Must not have used, distributed, or manufactured illicit narcotics or been arrested for any narcotics use, distribution or manufacturing.
9. Have not sniffed or used a substance to obtain an altered consciousness state from aerosol spray, lighter fluid, petro chemical, adhesives, Freon, or any other chemical for a purpose not intended for use.
10. Qualified to bear firearms according to AFI 31-117, "Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel".
11. No acts of larceny, wrongful appropriation, robbery, burglary, housebreaking, misconduct in combat defined in UCMJ Articles 99-106, or any act that harmed or had the potential to harm the physical safety or well-being of animals to include Military Working Dogs.
12. Never convicted by a civilian court of a Category One, Two, or Three offense, nor exceeded the accepted number of Category Four offenses. The Category Three and Four traffic offenses alone are not disqualifying. Note: Categories of offenses are described and listed in AFI 36-2002, "Regular Air Force and Special Category Accessions, Uniform Guide List of Typical Offenses".
13. No documented record of gang affiliation.
14. No fear of working around nuclear weapons or nuclear components.
15. Position requires routine access to Secret material; and, a current National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and Credit (NACLC) is required.
16. Must maintain an Air Force Network License.

 A. I have read and understand the selective factors as stated above and would like to be considered for the position.
 B. I have read and understand the selective factors as stated above and would not like to be considered for the position.
Assessment 1
Respond to all statements and questions. These statements and questions allow applicants to highlight their Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs) which are applicable to the position for which you are applying. If it is necessary to limit the number of applicants for a position, these KSAs will be used to determine the "Best Qualified". For each KSA please identify below in the space provided how you have either demonstrated the KSA or have shown the potential to acquire them. Give specific examples describing related project, details, work assignments, outside activities, and the time frames involved in each. If you do not answer these statements and questions an accurate evaluation of your qualifications may not be possible. This may result in your application not being certified.
1. Knowledge of security and security forces requirements, procedures, and tactics to support installation physical security.
2. Knowledge of firearms and tactics for employing them in emergency situations.
3. Knowledge of safety practices and procedures.
4. Knowledge of applicable Air Force, Department of Defense law enforcement, and security rules, regulations, instructions, practices, principles and procedures, including force protection, integrated base defense, anti-terrorism, and physical security.
5. Knowledge of police officer procedures and operating methods to independently perform the full range of Security Forces activities, to include protection level resources, installation entry controls, armed responses and dispatch duties.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Experience that provided knowledge of a body of basic laws and regulations, law enforcement operations, practices, and techniques and involved responsibility for maintaining order and protecting life and property. Creditable specialized experience may have been gained in work on a police force; through service as a military police officer; in work providing visitor protection and law enforcement in parks, forests, or other natural resource or recreational environments; in performing criminal investigative duties; or in other work that provided the required knowledge and skills.

Do you meet the above qualification standards?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected