Position Title
Supervisory Attorney-Adviser (Trademark)
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
TMCO-COMM-25-12761122-EX Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 22, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
14
15
2. How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 A. Email
 B. Facebook
 C. Instagram
 D. LinkedIn
 E. @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 F. Reddit
 G. Google Reviews
 H. Handshake University Platform
 I. Monster
 J. Indeed
 K. Glassdoor
 L. USAJOBS
 M. University Job Board
 N. Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 O. Friend
 P. USPTO Employee
 Q. Professional Society / Organization
 R. State Bar Association
 S. University Career Fair
 T. Conference
 U. University Career Placement Office
 V. Virtual Job Fair
 W. USPTO Information Session
 X. USPTO Jobs web pages
 Y. USPTO website
 Z. Other
3. Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
--Select-- 
--Select--
I am not a current Federal civilian employee
Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
Other
5. If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Attorney-Adviser (Trademark) position with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). Your resume and the responses you provide will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Are you a current United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) Federal Employee?

 A. Yes, I am a current United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) Federal Employee.
 B. No, I am NOT a current United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) Federal Employee.
2. Do you possess a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree or Master of Laws (LL.M.) degree from an ABA accredited law school?

 A. Yes, I do possess a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree or Master of Laws (LL.M.) degree from an ABA accredited law school.
 B. No, I DO NOT possess a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree or Master of Laws (LL.M.) degree from an ABA accredited law school.
3. Are you an active member in good standing of a bar of a State, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the U.S. Constitution?
 A. Yes, I am an active member in good standing of a bar of a State, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the U.S. Constitution.
 B. No, I am NOT an active member in good standing of a bar of a State, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the U.S. Constitution.
4. In order to qualify for this position at the GS-14 level, you must possess at least one (1) year of Specialized Experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-13) AND three (3) years of the Professional Legal/Law Experience.

Specialized Experience is defined as:

Experience working with Trademark statutes, case law, rules of practice regarding Trademark operational requirements, practices, procedures, pre-examination, publication and issue, the intent-to-use, and post registration; knowledge of USPTO and Trademark program goals, objectives, business priorities and public policy issues; experience applying legal, factual and marketplace issues related to the prosecution of trademark and service mark applications to a variety of International Classes.

AND

Professional legal/law is legal experience, Post J.D., giving legal advice with respect to questions, regulations, practices, etc. of the Federal government, law firm, or private industry; preparing interpretative orders, rules, decisions, or opinions to give effect to the provisions of statutes or laws; drafting, negotiating, or examining legal documents; drafting, preparing formal comments, or making substantive recommendations regarding legal work product; drafting, editing and preparing legal guidelines; drafting and reviewing decisions for adoption by an organization or official; conducting investigations to obtain facts; determining questions of law; evaluating legal precedents to offer findings/make recommendations; recommending policies and developing procedures or regulations to implement new or amended legislation; acting as legal, general or senior counsel to a major firm or organization; developing and implementing written training or guidance; providing instruction in a classroom setting.

 A. I have at least one (1) year of the specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level AND three (3) years of the professional legal/law experience in the Federal Service as defined in the statement above.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
5. In order to qualify for this position at the GS-15 level, you must possess at least one (1) year of Specialized Experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-14) AND four (4) years of the Professional Legal/Law Experience.

Specialized Experience is defined as:

Experience working with Trademark statutes, case law, rules of practice regarding Trademark operational requirements, practices, procedures, pre-examination, publication and issue, the intent-to-use, and post registration; knowledge of USPTO and Trademark program goals, objectives, business priorities and public policy issues; experience applying legal, factual and marketplace issues related to the prosecution of trademark and service mark applications to a variety of International Classes; experience supervising or managing a legal staff or the ability to supervise or manage a subordinate staff to effectively lead, motivate, evaluate, and set goals and objectives; experience organizing and directing the training of attorneys in classroom or individual settings; and skill in oral and written communication.

AND

Professional Legal/Law Experience is defined as having experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, abilities and/or competencies to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled in the area of trademark law. This experience is characterized by breadth and depth of experience in rendering professional legal advice and services with respect to questions, regulations, practices, or other matters falling within the purview of a Federal government agency, private sector, law firm, or other organization; preparing interpretative and administrative orders, rules, or regulations to give effect to the provisions of governing statutes or other requirements of law; drafting, negotiating, or examining contracts or other legal documents; drafting, preparing formal comments, or making substantive recommendations regarding proposed legislation; editing and preparing for publication statutes enacted by Congress and opinions or decisions of a court, commission, or board; drafting and reviewing decisions for consideration and adoption by an organization or official; conducting investigations to obtain facts; determines questions of law; studies, analyzes and evaluates legal precedents, to present findings. Legal work is described as extremely complex and difficult and requires a high order of original and creative legal endeavor in balancing conflicting interests; has broad or wide-scope impact on an economy, industry, private or public interests; and may involve directly or indirectly very large sums of money. Work may also involve acting as principal attorney in charge of the preparation and presentation of cases; recommending policies and developing procedures and regulations to implement new or amended legislation; and acting as legal, general or senior counsel to a major firm or organization.

 A. I have at least one (1) year of the specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level AND four (4) years of the professional legal/law experience in the Federal Service as defined in the statement above.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected