Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Air Force Civilian Career Training
Announcement Number
Q-26-DHA-12794874-1102-09 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 1, 2025 to Wednesday, September 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
CTAP - Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. 

 Yes
 No


3.
ICTAP - Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Maxwell AFB, AL
 B. Eielson AFB, AK
 C. Elmendorf AFB, AK
 D. Davis Monthan AFB, AZ
 E. Luke AFB, AZ
 F. Little Rock AFB, AR
 G. Beale AFB, CA
 H. Edwards AFB, CA
 I. Los Angeles, CA
 J. March AFB, CA
 K. Travis AFB, CA
 L. Vandenberg AFB, CA
 M. Air Force Academy, CO
 N. Buckley AFB, CO
 O. Peterson AFB, CO
 P. Schriever AFB, CO
 Q. Dover AFB, DE
 R. Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, DC
 S. Eglin AFB, FL
 T. Hurlburt Field, FL
 U. MacDill AFB, FL
 V. Patrick AFB, FL
 W. Tyndall AFB, FL
 X. Dobbins AFB, GA
 Y. Moody AFB, GA
 Z. Robins AFB, GA
 AA. Hickam AFB, HI
 AB. Mountain Home AFB, ID
 AC. Scott AFB, IL
 AD. McConnell AFB, KS
 AE. Lexington, KY
 AF. Barksdale AFB, LA
 AG. Andrews AFB, MD
 AH. Hanscom AFB, MA
 AI. Westover Air Reserve Base, MA
 AJ. Columbus AFB, MS
 AK. Keesler AFB, MS
 AL. Whiteman AFB, MO
 AM. Malmstrom AFB, MT
 AN. Offutt AFB, NE
 AO. Nellis AFB, NV
 AP. Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, NJ
 AQ. McGuire AFB, NJ
 AR. Cannon AFB, NM
 AS. Holloman AFB, NM
 AT. Kirtland AFB, NM
 AU. Rome, NY
 AV. Seymour Johnson AFB, NC
 AW. Grand Forks AFB, ND
 AX. Minot AFB, ND
 AY. Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
 AZ. Altus AFB, OK
 BA. Tinker AFB, OK
 BB. Vance AFB, OK
 BC. Pittsburgh, PA
 BD. Charleston AFB, SC
 BE. Shaw AFB, SC
 BF. Ellsworth AFB, SD
 BG. Arnold AFB, TN
 BH. Dyess AFB, TX
 BI. Fort Sam Houston, TX
 BJ. Goodfellow AFB, TX
 BK. Lackland AFB, TX
 BL. Laughlin AFB, TX
 BM. Randolph AFB, TX
 BN. Sheppard AFB, TX
 BO. Hill AFB, UT
 BP. Arlington County, VA
 BQ. Langley AFB, VA
 BR. Pentagon, Arlington, VA
 BS. Fairchild AFB, WA
 BT. Warren AFB, WY


2.
I am a current permanent or former federal employee with less than 52 weeks break in the competitive service and I am applying for this position to be considered as a:
 Promotion Candidate - I am eligible for promotion consideration since I have held the next lower grade for at least 52 weeks on a permanent basis in the competitive service or I am a current FWS employee. NOTE: You must submit a copy of SF-50(s) that demonstrate you meet the one year time-in-grade requirement if applicable (i.e., Promotion, Within Grade/Rate Increase).
 Repromotion Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive repromotion consideration since I have held a higher grade on a permanent basis in the competitive federal service or a permanent position with the same or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 Non-competitive Reassignment Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive reassignment consideration since I currently hold a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis held on a permanent basis.
 Non-competitive Voluntary Change to Lower Grade (CLG) Candidate - I am eligible and requesting consideration for a Voluntary CLG since I have held, or currently hold a permanent competitive service position at a higher grade in the federal service. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your current permanent position.
 I am not eligible for any of the above considerations.


3.
I am a current or prior military member of the Armed Forces that is retiring or has been retired less than 180 days. Hiring (appointments or transfers) of retiring or retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in any DoD Component during the 180 days immediately following retirement may only be made IAW DoDI 1402.01 and may require a waiver for appointment prior to the 180 days from official military retirement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you retired from the Federal civilian service or are you in a phased retirement and receiving an annuity?
 Yes
 No


5.
Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316?
-OR-
Are you a current or former Schedule A or Schedule C political appointee, or an appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
-OR-
Are you a current or former political appointee or non-career SES Executive Branch employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
Did you voluntarily separate from federal service and receive Voluntary Separation Incentive Pay (VSIP)?

NOTE: If your response is yes, you must provide a copy of your SF 50 or Leave and Earnings statement showing receipt of payment as part of your application submission. If you become reemployed by the federal government within 5 years of separating from federal service and have received a VSIP, you will be required to repay the full VSIP amount paid to you.
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a military spouse who is currently married to an active duty military member?

NOTE: This item is for demographic reporting only. It does not confer eligibility or preference. If you want to apply as a military spouse, you must select from the eligibility options above. Military spouse and military spouse preference may not be available for all positions.
 Yes
 No


8.
If you are a military spouse who is currently married to an active duty military member, did you relocate with the military member to their current duty station?
 Yes
 No
 Not applicable. I am not a military spouse.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙