Position Title
General Engineer/ Physical Scientist
Agency
National Nuclear Security Administration
Announcement Number
25-NA-15-OST-XA-00356-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Tuesday, September 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a SURPLUS or DISPLACED federal employee (e.g., Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP))?

If yes, confirm:

--you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;
--you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated;
--you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
--your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or equivalent.

For more information on eligibility visit:  https://www.usajobs.gov/help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/career-transition/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 1301 - General Physical Science
2. Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).
3. I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
WARNING! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from employment consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications.
4. I have read this Vacancy Announcement thoroughly and understand that supplemental documentation may be required. I further understand that I will not be considered if my supplemental documentation is not received in the Servicing Personnel Office by the closing date of the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you currently serving or have you served under a Political Appointment in the Federal Government within the last five (5) years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Basic Educational Requirement: Applicants must meet the basic educational requirement for the General Engineer and Physical Science positions. Please select the letter which most accurately describes your level of education. Transcripts are required.
1. Please select the appropriate response which best describes your education. Transcripts are required.
 A. I possess a professional engineering degree from a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board of Engineering Technology (ABET).
 B. I possess a professional engineering degree with completed coursework including differential and integral calculus (beyond first year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: statistic, dynamics; strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); fluid mechanics, hydraulics; thermodynamics; electrical fields and circuits; nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure of properties); and other comparable fundamental engineering science or physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 C. I possess a combination of college level education and experience. College level education, training and/or technical experience that has furnished a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering and a good understanding both theoretical and practical of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering.
 D. I possess a professional registration or licensure. Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Colombia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test.
 E. None of the Above.
2. Please select the appropriate response which best describes your education. Transcripts are required.
 A. I possess a professional degree: physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 B. I possess a combination of college level education and experience. Education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. None of the Above.
3. Please select the appropriate response which best describes your experience for the General Engineer/Physical Scientist NN-0801/1301-04.
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the NNSA pay band or GS grade level in the Federal Service i.e., NN-03 or GS-13. Specialized experience is defined as: Experience in the application of advance program management principles, practices and techniques associated with the design of new and emerging technology development, production, and lifecycle phases related to Capital Acquisition Management or an equivalent program standard.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience required for this position.
4. Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience with project management.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have led others in the performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
5. Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience with internal controls to ensure effective and efficient requirements and project management.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have led others in the performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
6. Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience as a Contracting Officer Representative or Contracting Officer Technical Representative to evaluate contractor performance.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have led others in the performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
7. Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience developing, supporting, defending, and tracking multi-year and multi-million-dollar project budgets.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have led others in the performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. If you choose to not answer, please enter "no response."
8. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
9. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
10. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired.
11. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Please provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
12. I certify I used my own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot to complete these four essay questions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
WARNING! USAJOBS ONLINE positions close at midnight Eastern Time (ET) on the closing date of the vacancy announcement. After midnight ET, jobs that have closed will not be available for review or changes. REMINDER! Your resume must be established in your account to verify the experience claimed in your responses to the questions. To be considered, you must ensure that your resume is submitted before the vacancy announcement closes.

I understand that I must click on the "SUBMIT APPLICATION" button, located at the end of the review of my answers and resume, to complete the application process. I understand that I will receive a confirmation page AND that I should print this confirmation page. Thank you for using the DOE Jobs Online system and for your interest in employment with the Department of Energy!


 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected