Position Title
Supervisory Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12820326-26-CMC Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 23, 2025 to Thursday, October 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
In accordance with Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO) Bulletin, Annual Determination of Staffing Shortages dated September 30, 2022; Diagnostic Radiologic Technologists, 0647 (all specializations are included) are not subject to Veterans Preference. This will continue until September 30, 2023. Veterans Preference will not be collected for this announcement.


The following section is used to determine your minimum qualifications for appointment with the Federal Government. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training.


Federal regulations require a person appointed in any direct care capacity to possess such basic proficiency in spoken and written English as will permit such degree of communication with patients and other health-care personnel as will enable the person to carry out the person's health-care responsibilities satisfactorily.


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English, as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d)?

 Yes
 No


2.
Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from schools accredited by the ARRT and certification by the ARRT in radiology?
Note, transcript or educational documentation must be submitted.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) (R)?
Note, Copy of ARRT certification must be submitted for consideration.

 Yes
 No.


Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable. Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent can operate independently and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination.


4.
Do you possess the Advanced certification in Computed Tomography from the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (AART (R)(CT))?

Note, Copy of ARRT certification must be submitted for consideration.

 Yes
 No.


This specialty modality requires specific knowledge of cross-sectional human anatomy and its application in spiral, and/or, multi-slice computer tomography, inclusive of 3-D reconstruction scans, including drainages, biopsies, and peripheral vascular examinations. The technologist requires specific knowledge and training in the location, appearance, and function of the various major and minor systems susceptible to radiological illumination; to interpret the examination request accurately; to understand the functioning and interrelationship of the various organs; to use the methods and techniques which will identify organs appearing on the digital display monitor, or on film, and the various stages of the examination to judge the acceptability of the image and/or scan for diagnostic use and to emphasize the aspects of interest to the physician.


5.
Do you possess 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-10), which is directly related to the position to be filled? Employees are trained to work in one or more difficult and complex modalities performing procedures related to these modalities as well as performing general diagnostic procedures. The incumbent functions as section supervisor for a group of advanced DRTs at the GS-10 level and below, which may include support staff. The incumbent evaluates new products and equipment and makes recommendations to the supervisor concerning upgrades/new purchases that would improve operations. The incumbent develops and maintains protocol manuals for procedures performed in the section. The incumbent is responsible for implementation and adherence to all safety practices and policies for the section. The incumbent directs the development and implementation of services and treatment to patients through the supervision, mentoring, and oversight of assigned clinical staff. Experience must demonstrate practice skills in a specialty area or in administration demonstrating progressively more professional competency and judgment. The candidate must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs:
- Ability to analyze organizational, technical, and administrative problems and to develop and implement solutions that result in efficient section operation.
- Ability to analyze and use data effectively to manage section workload, quality, performance, and productivity.
- Skill in problem solving and conflict resolution.
- Ability to supervise technologists performing a wide variety of difficult radiographic exams (CT, MRI, Special Procedures, Mammography, Ultrasound).
- Ability to interview and evaluate candidates for positions, evaluate subordinate performance, recommend appointments, advancements, or recommend or take appropriate disciplinary actions.
- Skill in participating in organizational facility initiatives, workgroups, and/or committees.

 Yes.
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙