Position Title
Child & Youth Programs Regional Program Analyst
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12800725 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Regional Program Analyst. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 A. I have the equivalent of 3 years of experience in professional management, business administration, database management, information systems management, and administrative experience that qualifies for the position.
 B. I have a 2-year degree related to professional management, business administration, information systems management, and administrative experience AND 2 years of professional management, financial management, and administrative experience.
 C. I have a 4-year degree in the same fields AND 1 year of professional management, financial management, and administrative experience.
 D. I have none of the above.
2. What is your highest level of education?
 A. I have a master’s degree in business administration, database administration, information systems management, or a related field.
 B. I have a bachelor’s degree in business administration, database administration, information systems management, or a related field.
 C. I have a 2-year degree in business administration, database administration, information systems management, or a related field.
 D. I do not have a degree, but have 3 years of professional management, database management, information systems management, and administrative experience.
 E. I have none of the above.
3. How many years of experience do you have in data collection, management information systems, administrative programs, financial management and IT systems as they relate and support Child and Youth program management decisions?
 A. I have 5+ years of experience in financial management, database management, IT systems, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years of experience in financial management, database management, IT systems, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, database management, IT systems, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 D. I have less than 3 years of experience in financial management, database management, IT systems, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a child and youth program.
 E. I have no experience in the above.
4. How many years of experience do you have with DoD administrative database management systems?  (Child and Youth Programs software programs such as Enterprise Modeling System, Teaching Strategies, etc.)
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in performing database management, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in performing database management, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 3+ years of experience in performing database management, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 D. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in performing database management, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience in performing database management.
 F. I have no experience in the above.
5. How many years of experience do you have with child and youth programs and services?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience with DoD Child and Youth Programs.
 B. I have 1 to 3 years of experience with DoD Child and Youth Programs.
 C. I have 3+ years of experience with child and youth programs outside of the DoD.
 D. I have 1 to 3 years of experience with child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience with child and youth programs.
 F. I have no experience with the above.
6. Do you have experience in administrating, managing, and operating one or more of the following DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDC), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDH), Youth Programs (YP), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 A. I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating all four of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 B. I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 C. I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating at least two of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 D. I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 E. I have no experience in the above.
7. Do you have experience in overseeing one or more of the following DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDC), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDH), Youth Programs (YP), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 A. I have experience in overseeing all four of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 B. I have experience in overseeing at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 C. I have experience in overseeing at least two of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 D. I have experience in overseeing one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 E. I have no experience in the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected