Position Title
Supervisory Security Guard
Agency
Armed Forces Retirement Home
Announcement Number
25-AFRH-12777445 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 to Monday, August 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?
(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.
National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

• recently separated (within the past 3 years)
• are a disabled veteran
• served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition OR
• received an Armed Forces Service Medal

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration.

Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, please provide a reason in the text box below.
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
Assessment 1
1. Specialized Experience is one-year of experience at the GS-09 level, or equivalent, that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position as listed above. Specialized experience is defined as:

Providing guidance and supervision over an organization that involves the protection of property against such hazards as fire, theft, damage, accident, or trespass;
AND
Maintaining order and protecting life;
AND
Using investigative techniques and ability to write reports.
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-09 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
2. Please indicate which of the following describes your experience conducting training. Select all that apply.
 A. I have prepared lesson plans.
 B. I have delivered one-on-one training to other staff members.
 C. I have conducted trainings for a group of staff.
 D. I have provided one-on-one training to citizens.
 E. I have prepared tests to assess knowledge gained from training provided.
 F. None of the above.
3. Please select all types of information sources you have used to conduct training sessions:
 A. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).
 B. Agency Directives.
 C. Subject matter DVDs.
 D. Subject matter related websites.
 E. None of the above.
4. Select all of the verbal communication activities that you have routinely performed in your employment.
 A. Conducted security enforcement interviews.
 B. Presented investigative findings to state and local law enforcement.
 C. Presented investigative status and other investigative matters to senior agency officials.
 D. Presented information persuasively to defend unpopular positions.
 E. Provided oral training presentations.
 F. Successfully negotiated for the acceptance of new policies and/or procedures.
 G. Served as mediator in discussions between varying groups or individuals with opposing opinions and/or goals.
 H. Testified in court and/or administrative hearings.
 I. None of the above.
5. Select all of the written products below that you have experience writing.
 A. Memoranda of Investigative Activities.
 B. Reports of Investigation.
 C. Investigative work plans.
 D. Administrative reports to management.
 E. Proposals for undercover, surveillance, arrest. or search warrant operations.
 F. Briefing papers for senior officials.
 G. Policy and procedures.
 H. Applications for approval for consensual monitoring.
 I. Project/Program planning proposals.
 J. Training presentations and other training material.
 K. None of the above.
6. Select the choice that best describes your experience in reporting to higher-level officials on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 A. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 B. I have given informal briefings to higher-level officials in the organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 C. I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to higher-level officials both within and outside my organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 D. None of the above.
7. Select all of the Security enforcement activities with which you have experience.
 A. Conducted physical surveillance.
 B. Conducted consensual monitoring or other electronic surveillance.
 C. Performed interviews.
 D. Participated with local law enforcement investigations.
 E. Participated in employee misconduct fact finding investigations.
 F. Testified in court and/or administrative hearings.
 G. None of the above.
8. Select the choice that best describes the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, determined the accuracy of the data, defined problems based on the data, and identified solutions.
 A. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 B. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 C. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 D. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
 E. None of the above.
9. For which of the following security incidents do you have experience developing plans and procedures. Select all that apply.
 A. Fire.
 B. Civil disorder.
 C. Disasters.
 D. Active Shooter.
 E. Criminal acts.
 F. None of the above.
10. Which of the following day-to-day activities do you have experience overseeing? Select all the apply.
 A. Patrol operations.
 B. Access control.
 C. Background checks.
 D. Fingerprinting.
 E. Operating budget for an office.
 F. Reviewing security reports for correctness.
 G. None of the above.
11. I have experience directing and coordinating the following activities and handling them accordingly:
 A. Fire Alarm.
 B. Illegal entry.
 C. Civil disorder.
 D. Disasters with local law enforcement.
 E. Disasters with local fire emergency services.
 F. None of the above.
12. Which of the following emergency situations or routine duties do you have experience in managing? Select all that apply.
 A. Pull Cords.
 B. Pendants.
 C. Telephone emergencies.
 D. Trespassing.
 E. Damage property reports.
 F. Fire alarms.
 G. Intrusion alarms.
 H. Escort of fireboard/law enforcement personnel to a destination.
 I. Incidents resulting in death.
 J. None of the above.
13. Which of the following do you have experience monitoring? Select all that apply.
 A. Electronic sensors.
 B. CCTV systems.
 C. Alarm systems.
 D. None of the above.
14. I have used a monitoring system to dispatch staff for the following:
 A. Responding to pull cords and pendants.
 B. Responding to reports of trespassing.
 C. Responding to reports of fire.
 D. Responding to intrusion alarms.
 E. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected