Position Title
CYP Child and Youth Program Leader
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12792035 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 28, 2025 to Thursday, September 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. This position has been identified as a Test Designated Position (TDP). I am willing and able to submit to pre-employment and random drug testing (urinalysis) on a recurring basis.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to submit to a pre-employment physical exam prior to employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires selectee to complete and pass a pre-employment drug test. I am willing and able to complete and pass a pre-employment drug test.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program Leader position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Please select the statement applicable to you.
 A. I have a certificate of completion for the Department of Navy (DoN) Standardized Module Training AND 12 months of experience at the CY-II (GSE-04) Level or equivalent experience AND a high school diploma or equivalent.
 B. I have a Child Development Associate (CDA) credential or Military School-Age (MSA) credential AND completion of 1 year at the CY Program Assistant/Base Level 4 or equivalent experience AND a high school diploma or equivalent.
 C. I have an associate degree or higher in Youth Development, Child Development or related field of study, which can include Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Early Childhood Education, Home Economics with an emphasis in Human Development, or other degrees as appropriate AND 1 year at the CY Program Assistant/Base Level 4 or equivalent experience.
 D. I have none of the above.
2. What is your highest level of education?
 A. I have a bachelor's degree or higher in Youth Development, Child Development or a related field of study, which can include Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Early Childhood Education, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics (human development emphasis), or a degree in other fields as appropriate.
 B. I have an associate's degree in Youth Development, Child Development or a related field of study, which can include Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Early Childhood Education, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics (human development emphasis), or a degree in other fields as appropriate.
 C. I have a Child Development Associate (CDA) credential or Military School-Age (MSA) credential.
 D. I have a certificate of completion for the DoD-approved competency-based training courses.
 E. I have a certificate of completion for the child abuse courses and the DoD-approved competency-based training courses related to Positive Guidance, Safe Environments, and Healthy Environments.
 F. I have a high school diploma or equivalent.
 G. I have none of the above.
3. How many months of experience do you have in applying child and youth development principles to plan programs and activities for children/youth in a group setting (e.g., conflict resolution, and exploring the environment around them)?
 A. I have 12+ months of experience in applying child and youth development principles, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 6 to 12 months of experience in applying child and youth development principles, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 12+ months of experience in applying child and youth development principles, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 D. I have 6 to 12 months of experience in applying child and youth development principles programs, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have less than 6 months of experience in applying child and youth development principles.
 F. I have no experience in the above.
4. How many months of experience do you have in implementing programs and activities that promote a positive learning environment for children/youth in a group setting (e.g., develop social skills, make healthy choices, and build self-help and school readiness skills)?
 A. I have 12+ months of experience in implementing programs and activities, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 6 to 12 months of experience in implementing programs and activities, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 12+ months of experience in implementing programs and activities, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 D. I have 6 to 12 months of experience in implementing programs and activities, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have less than 6 months of experience in implementing programs and activities.
 F. I have no experience in the above.
5. How many months of experience do you have in leading, mentoring, and guiding others (e.g., individuals, groups, teams, and peers) in a child and youth program setting?
 A. I have 12+ months of leadership and mentoring experience, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 6 to 12 months of leadership and mentoring experience, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 C. I have 12+ months of leadership and mentoring experience, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 D. I have 6 to 12 months of leadership and mentoring experience, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have less than 6 months of leadership and mentoring experience.
 F. I have no experience in the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected