Position Title
Criminal Investigator (Project Officer)
Agency
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
Announcement Number
25-OIO-IMP-12760035-CLG Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 13, 2025 to Wednesday, August 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you currently work at ATF?
 
To be eligible, you must:
Be a current permanent ATF employee on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. If you are unsure of your eligibility login to HR Connect to review your latest SF-50. Block 24 -Tenure must be "1 - Permanent" or "2 - Conditional" AND Block 34 - Position Occupied must be "1 -Competitive Service."
Submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) with your application package.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy; and
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels that I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold.
The full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s).
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and have you held the full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); and status in the competitive service (position occupied field is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.
1. You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade in the federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level GS-13: Applying a wide range of criminal investigative, enforcement, laws, regulations, guidelines, and precedent decisions; AND Identifying significant sources of information to detect illegal activity and document issues or probable cause and conduct investigations to determine if violations have occurred; AND Communicating orally and in writing to prepare and present reports, briefings, and/or exchange information.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described above.
2. What types of investigations have you conducted, either as lead investigator or as a team or task force member, in which there was a successful outcome, with prosecution and convictions obtained? (Check all that apply.)
 A. Complex multi-defendant conspiracy cases
 B. Homicide cases
 C. Fraud/forgery cases
 D. Organized crime/RICO cases
 E. Financial crimes
 F. Arson crimes
 G. Burglary crimes
 H. Robbery crimes
 I. Firearms crimes
 J. Tobacco diversion crimes
 K. None of the above
3. Select the statements that describe your experience with investigative activities and techniques. (Check all that apply.)
 A. Consolidate and evaluate disparate facts, events, and other types of intelligence material/information.
 B. Develop continuing sources of information such as informants or confidential sources.
 C. Handle criminal investigation cases involving substantial difficulty where circumstantial evidence is used.
 D. Work with other law enforcement agencies to solve multi-jurisdictional problems.
 E. Interview criminal suspects or witnesses.
 F. Establish the interrelationship of facts and evidence to either preempt criminal activities or lead to a successful criminal prosecution.
 G. Participate in or conduct undercover operations.
 H. Coordinate investigations involving the activities of several local, county, state, and federal agencies.
 I. None of the above.
4. Please select a response from the following list that best describes your experience in decision-making and problem solving.
 A. I have experience evaluating and reconciling problems associated with data from multiple sources reporting different results.
 B. I have experience making logical assumptions which reflect factual information in making decisions, developing alternative courses of action and/or providing direction to others to resolve problems.
 C. I have experience gathering and evaluating complex technical information and preparing written reports and documents with recommendations to management for solving issues or problems.
 D. I have experience analyzing data, statistics and trends to identify problems and to formulate solutions to address them.
 E. I have experience identifying issues and problems, setting priorities, developing definitive alternatives, and focusing on possible solutions.
 F. None of the above.
5. From the below please identify all you have routinely and successfully applied at work. (Check all that apply).
 A. Facilitate the coordination and synchronization of intelligence operations and activities between intelligence and law enforcement agencies.
 B. Work with Federal, State and Local government partners to create an information-sharing environment.
 C. Assist with planning and formulation of policies, procedures and strategies to provide advisory services and training on intelligence and information coordination operations.
 D. None of the above.
6. From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems. (Check all that apply).
 A. Resolved problems with close supervision.
 B. Resolved problems independently.
 C. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences.
 D. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation was needed to meet objectives.
 E. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identified policy or process issues and offered multiple options for resolution.
 F. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents.
 G. Served on teams assigned to the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to previously identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives.
 H. None of the above.
7. Which of the following best describes your experience gathering and evaluating information and data?
 A. I have applied analytical and evaluating methods, theories, and techniques to provide recommendations on technical issues (e.g., conducting studies; researching and analyzing official documents; compiling and charting statistical data; gathering, summarizing and analyzing information for incorporation into final reports; carrying out specified portions or segments of specific projects).
 B. I have tracked and monitored completion of office assignments and prepared reports that evaluate results and document any trends.
 C. I have obtained accurate and sufficient information on outside inquiries and recommended responses based on evaluation of the information.
 D. I have conducted analysis, reviews, and studies of operational and administrative programs and processes in order to provide recommended solutions and improvements for the efficiency of the office.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. Have you compiled and analyzed data and information from a variety of sources in order to identify statistical trends and/or identify potential significant areas for further independent research and evaluation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. I have routinely analyzed information and data to do the following: (Check all that apply).
 A. Track progress or status
 B. Assess quality
 C. Draw conclusions
 D. Evaluate program effectiveness
 E. Identify trends and potential issues
 F. Offer solutions and recommendations
 G. Determine the implications of the information or data
 H. Conduct strategic planning
 I. None of the above
10. In which of the following events have you communicated verbally or made oral presentations? (Check all that apply).
 A. Speeches
 B. Conferences
 C. Meetings
 D. One-on-one discussions
 E. Telephone discussions
 F. Training
 G. Technical assistance
 H. Interviews
 I. Briefings
 J. None of the above
11. From the following list of interpersonal communications skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied at work. (Check all that apply).
 A. Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties across divisions or directorates whose cooperation was needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arose that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to staff.
 D. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 E. Diffused confrontational situations with people who were difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 F. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives.
 G. Worked cooperatively across divisions or directorates with others as a team to achieve a project or program goals.
 H. None of the above.
12. Which of the following types of documents have you written? (Check all that apply).
 A. Case investigation reports
 B. Briefing papers
 C. Significant incident reports
 D. Assignment status reports
 E. None of the above.
13. Select the statements that describe your experience in oral communication. (Check all that apply).
 A. I have orally presented technical information in person or by phone.
 B. I have made speeches or oral presentations to groups.
 C. I have conducted interviews to elicit facts or obtain information.
 D. I have made oral presentations involving investigative, criminal, and/or legal topics.
 E. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
14. Do any of your relatives work for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives? Include: father; mother; husband; wife; son; daughter; brother; sister; uncle; aunt; first cousin; nephew; niece; father-in-law; mother-in-law; son-in-law; daughter-in-law; brother-in-law; sister-in-law; stepfather; stepmother; stepson; stepdaughter; stepbrother; stepsister; half-brother; and half-sister.
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. ATF employment is contingent upon a favorable adjudication (decision) of your background investigation. Your conduct and character must demonstrate suitability for the position for which you are applying. Unresolved matters may prevent completion of your background investigation or favorable adjudication of it. If ATF cannot complete your background investigation and adjudicate it, you will be removed from the hiring process. Are you willing to submit to the background investigation process?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. The Department of Justice requires that you provide proof that for 3 out of the last 5 years you have resided in the United States, worked for the United States in a foreign country in a Federal or U.S. military capacity for 3 out of the last 5 years, and/or been a dependent of a Federal or U.S. military employee in a foreign country for 3 out of the last 5 years. Are you able to provide sufficient documentation to meet this residency requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected