Position Title
Property Disposal Specialist
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLADispSvcs-25-12764252-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 10, 2025 to Friday, July 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you applying for this position to be considered as a Military Spouse Preference for Overseas Employment? You must submit a copy of your spouse's PCS Orders OR area clearance OR command sponsorship letter AND a valid marriage certificate or other documentation verifying marriage (such as any official documentation verifying a recognized common law marriage). Additionally, if applicable, a copy of your most recent SF-50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 A. Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 B. I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 C. I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 D. No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.
3. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Performing reutilization, transfer, donation (R/T/D), and/or sales of excess property; Ensuring sales/referrals are conducted in accordance with good merchandising practices and regulatory requirements; and Researching property disposal problems and develops corrective actions.
 B. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.
 C. I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in A and B above.
 D. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position.
In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.
2. Which of the following statements reflects your experience with evaluating disposal procedures or operations due to mission changes? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Evaluating disposal records.
 B. Identifying required revisions to disposal operations.
 C. Writing proposed modifications to accommodate mission changes.
 D. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
3. Have you independently recommended solutions to disposal operations problems?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Incumbents will be responsible for assisting site personnel with complex disposal decisions. Please select the statements that reflect your experience with assisting co-workers. (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have provided detailed instructions and in-process guidance to co-workers.
 B. I have provided detailed instructions regarding disposal of non- routine or specialized property to co-workers.
 C. I have provided co-workers with detailed guidance regarding the procedures for the downgrading of property to scrap.
 D. I have advised co-workers of proper guidance on items requiring special handling due to the property being potentially hazardous, toxic or having environmental pollutants and chemicals.
 E. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
5. Which of the following key disposal areas have you had experience with in a day to day operational environment (Select all statements that apply).

 A. Warehousing processes
 B. Inventory processes
 C. Reutilization processes
 D. Sales processes
 E. Scrap processes
 F. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
6. From the following responses, please select the statements that most accurately reflect your experience providing oversight of the sales program within your disposal operations site. (Select all statements that apply.)
 A. I have assured the proper loading of property is as specified in the contract.
 B. I have notified region Sales Office of delayed deliveries.
 C. I have provided information on claims.
 D. I have provided information on completed sales contracts.
 E. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
7. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience with requested changes to established contracts for disposal services.

 A. I worked with the Contracting Office on reviewing contract terms submitted for change requests.
 B. I advised the contractor to submit requests for changes in writing to the Contracting Office, indicating the effect the change will have on the contract terms and conditions.
 C. I have completed formal training in contract oversight.
 D. None of the above.
8. Incumbents will monitor approved changes to existing contracts. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience.

 A. I have independently assured that changes in work under a contract are not implemented before written authorization or a contract modification is issued by the Contracting Officer.
 B. I have assisted co-workers or supervisors with the review of contract modifications.
 C. I have experience in reviewing written authorizations for contract changes.
 D. I have had training in contract modifications.
 E. None of the above.
9. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience maintaining customer contacts.

 A. I have maintained contact with various customers to provide assistance with property being issued to include the technical description and possible uses obtained from information provided via applicable systems.
 B. I have worked closely with my supervisor to setup a contact with a new or transitioning military customer.
 C. I have had training on the customer base and points of contacts for my disposal site.
 D. None of the above.
10. Please select the areas that best reflect your experience in providing customer oriented disposal services. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have received and processed property in place at the generator's location.
 B. I have worked as a liaison with generating activities to establish tum-in schedules.
 C. I have conducted on and off-site seminars and orientation regarding my disposal site capabilities.
 D. I have assisted the customer in the solution of common disposal issues.
 E. None of the above (If selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
11. From the list below, select the response which corresponds to the highest level of education you have achieved. Education claimed may be verified upon selection. If you do not possess or unable to provide proof of education claimed, you may be found ineligible.

 A. Less than 2 Years of College
 B. Associate’s Degree OR Two Years College (successfully completed at least 60 semester or 90 quarter hours)
 C. Bachelor’s Degree OR Four Years College (successfully completed at least 120 semester or 180 quarter hours)
 D. Master’s Degree OR Above
12. Have you received an honorary or monetary award from your employer (government civilian, military, or private sector) during the last 3 years?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected