Position Title
Chief of Operations
Agency
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
Announcement Number
25-GCERC-12790099-MPA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current GCERC employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current GCERC employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current GCERC employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. New Orleans, LA
 B. Location Negotiable After Selection, United States
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Specialized experience: For the GS-15, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility at the GS-14 level in the Federal service or equivalent. This experience will have equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes: 
Leading information management and/or analytics projects relevant to organization goals and operational objectives from start to completion by managing the scope, schedule, cost, and risk to ensure proper monitoring, milestone achievement, and project success; AND
Researching, analyzing, and evaluating information, drawing conclusions, and devising innovative solutions; AND
Developing, prioritizing, and delivering improvement projects using strategic planning tools, business goals, directives, and risk analysis results; AND
Advising senior leadership and diverse stakeholders on relevant methods, tools, and products to facilitate effective oversight of strategic business goals.
1. Do you have one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level as described above?
 A. Yes, I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described above.
 B. No, I do not have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience as described above.
2. Choose the responses that best describe your experiences directing and managing staff.
 A. I have experience setting goals, administering, and directing the technical work of staff.
 B. I have experience evaluating and approving or rejecting work products and performance of team members.
 C. I have experience resolving employee complaints and issues.
 D. I have experience initiating performance-based corrective or disciplinary actions of employees.
 E. I have experience developing and nurturing inter-office relationships to gain cooperation for the purpose of successfully managing a project or program.
 F. I have experience clearly establishing and communicating priorities to staff based on shifting resources and business needs.
 G. None of the above
3. Select the response(s) that reflect(s) your experience in setting priorities and providing advice and instructions on how to best meet business or organizational goals.
 A. I have led less experienced co-workers across multiple different projects in order to meet organizational goals, including providing advice to co-workers on how to best meet goals. My experience includes planning requirements and process improvement efforts for projects.
 B. I have experience gathering, assessing, and developing user requirements to meet organizational needs.
 C. I have developed and recommended innovative solutions for project management risks/problems that result in decisions affecting the outcome of projects.
 D. I have experience recommending and implementing new or revised project plans and funding to improve practices and programs.
 E. I have experience tracking schedules and monitoring project action items for multiple different projects that have strict deadlines to ensure that projects are delivered on time and within budget.
 F. None of the above
4. Choose the response(s) that best describe your experiences directing and leading a team.
 A. I have experience evaluating, making suggestions and edits, and approving or rejecting work products of team members working on a joint project or program.
 B. I have developed and nurtured inter-office and intra-office relationships to gain cooperation for successfully managing a project or program.
 C. I have set goals, administered and technically directed the work of a team/group.
 D. I have led meetings or calls related to a project or program which I was a part of.
 E. I have assigned work tasks to individuals or directed the work of team members working on a joint project or program.
 F. I do not have experience directing or leading a team.
5. Choose the response that best describes your leadership experience.
 A. I have served in a Team Leader capacity, on a major project, with responsibility for assigning work, adjusting priorities, overseeing and ensuring programmatic goals and objectives were met, target dates were adhered to, and work by subordinate staff adheres to program requirements
 B. I have served in a Team leader capacity, specifically regarding analyzing management issues, developing performance and planning tools, providing effective oversight and guidance to diverse groups with varying interests and expertise, presenting and acquiring information, and providing leadership, direction, and coordination of the work of others, and ensuring the achievement of goals.
 C. I have served in a Team Leader capacity, with responsibility for directing and coordinating the work of others, including assuring that programs are operating in accordance with set policies, standards and procedures, and that operating goals, deadlines and program requirements were achieved.
 D. None of the above
6. Please indicate which of the following best describes your experience planning and organizing work to achieve the goals of a program or organization.
 A. I planned, developed, and implemented programs with organizational scope and impact and managed work teams and/or advisory groups in the overall design of systems and programs
 B. I established annual, multi-year, or similar types of long-range work plans for an organizational component, set goals and objectives, and planned for short and long term resource needs.
 C. I set goals and/or planned work to be accomplished by others, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 D. I planned and organized my own work assignments against deadlines assigned by my Supervisor and often handled several work assignments at the same time.
 E. I have done none of the above
7. Which of the following best describes your experience in resolving programmatic issues and problems?
 A. I have coordinated response efforts to issues and problems, with stakeholder engagement and dedicated sessions and communications surrounding the issue impacting the program or policy.
 B. I have participated in discussions established to resolve a program or policy issue.
 C. I have documented the issue or problem into a report, memorandum, strategic document.
 D. I have not formally resolved issues and problems.
8. Select the statement that best describes your experience working in a fast-paced environment with the need for flexibility and coordination across organizational boundaries.
 A. I have had limited experience having to adapt to changing priorities or working in a fast-paced environment.
 B. I have been assigned tasks that included coordinating across organizational boundaries but have not been required to apply this experience broadly or frequently.
 C. I quickly adapt to changing priorities and am sufficiently flexible to adjust to new assignments and duties with minimal stress.
 D. I have served as an integral part of a cross-organizational team in a fast-paced environment and readily adapt to changing priorities and duties.
 E. I have led projects within a fast-paced environment that have required significant flexibility and cross-organizational coordination.
 F. None of the above
9. Choose the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience in performing studies and analyses of proposed regulatory strategies, policies, programs and practices as a foundation for proposing regulatory, legislative or policy changes. Select all that apply.
 A. I have analyzed laws and regulations for the purpose of recommending changes in Federal or State government laws, regulations or policies
 B. I have regularly conducted research involving a variety of programs using laws, regulations, and directives.
 C. I have independently conducted office reviews and audits in order to identify specific needs and problems.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
10. Please select the example(s) that apply to your experience interpreting complex legislative and policy issues pertaining to an organization's programs. Select all that apply.
 A. Develop and track legislative language in support of new or revised programs and requirements throughout the Congressional legislative process.
 B. Analyze enacted legislation for use in developing agency policies and procedures.
 C. Develop materials, talking points, testimony, and briefing materials for senior organization/agency officials on the legislative impact.
 D. I received formal recognition of highly successful performance for this work through a performance appraisal or awards.
 E. None of the above
11. Choose the statement(s) that describe the communication/briefing skills you have used to present information to varied audiences.
 A. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 B. I have written clear, logical, concise, and persuasive materials for various audiences.
 C. I have drafted reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher-level officials.
 D. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations.
 E. I have edited reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for the intended audience.
 F. I have briefed managers/executives on technical information both within the Agency and outside the Agency.
 G. None of the above
12. Please select the response that best describes your writing experience and skill level in conveying regulatory information to a variety of audiences.
 A. I have experience in developing and writing policies or associated interpretive material and developing decision or option papers at the organizational level. I have experience using available resources and research methods to develop authoritative information on the programs, policies, and functions of the organization. Examples: Contracts, agency directives, narrative analyses of proposed rules/regulations/policies/practices, and/or decision papers.
 B. Experience in analyzing, developing and presenting information to maximize understanding and minimize controversy for a variety of audiences who use the information in different ways. Example: Providing information or advisory guidance.
 C. Experience in collecting, analyzing, and preparing written products for which there are prototypes or previously established methods and formats. Examples: Basic contracts, reports, business case summaries, employee surveys.
 D. None of the above
13. This position requires aiding a variety of people with new or difficult concepts and technical issues. Choose the statement(s) that describe services you provided on a regular basis.
 A. Facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities.
 B. Negotiated policy changes.
 C. Mediated or facilitated problem resolution.
 D. Briefed senior management on topics.
 E. Planned, hosted, and conducted meetings.
 F. I am regularly consulted by others on technical and programmatic issues.
 G. Served as an active participant on committees or task forces on technical and programmatic issues.
 H. Served as authoritative spokesperson for the organization on controversial issues.
 I. My work in performing this task has been recognized as highly successful, e.g. through performance appraisal and/or awards.
 J. None of the above
14. Choose the statement(s) that best describe your interpersonal communication experience. While you are encouraged to select all that may apply, if subsequently interviewed, applicants may be required to provide an example(s) that supports their answer(s) to this question.
 A. Make decisions and negotiate with others.
 B. Express thoughts or opinions in a logical sequence as a team or work group member.
 C. Communicate technical issues effectively to a wide variety of audiences.
 D. Participate in and representing the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences
 E. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected