Position Title
Supervisory Intelligence Research Specialist (Deputy Division Chief)
Agency
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
Announcement Number
25-OIO-IMP-12803918-CLG Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 22, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you currently work at ATF?
 
To be eligible, you must:
Be a current permanent ATF employee on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. If you are unsure of your eligibility login to HR Connect to review your latest SF-50. Block 24 -Tenure must be "1 - Permanent" or "2 - Conditional" AND Block 34 - Position Occupied must be "1 -Competitive Service."
Submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) with your application package.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy; and
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels that I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold.
The full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s).
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and have you held the full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); and status in the competitive service (position occupied field is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.
1. You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-14) in the federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower (GS-14) grade level:
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described above.
2. Choose all the statements that best describe your experience in leading a multi-agency investigation. (Check all that apply).
 A. I have met with participating law enforcement agencies of a multi-agency investigation to discuss the jurisdiction and organizational conflicts that arise during the course of the investigation.
 B. I have meet with prosecutors (Federal and State) on multi-agency investigations to discuss the jurisdictional issues and procedural processes during the course of the investigation.
 C. I have met with other Federal agencies of multi-agency investigations to discuss the investigative techniques/tactics and prosecution issues during the course of the investigation.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
3. This position requires the ability to supervise a staff of employees. Choose one from the following that best describes your highest level of experience in a permanent position.
 A. A team leader with full responsibility for planning and assigning work to be accomplished, setting and adjusting short-term priorities, providing technical review of work, coaching and counseling employees, providing input for performance evaluation and recognition of employees, documenting conduct and disciplinary issues, and managing productivity and quality of work.
 B. A first level supervisor, with full authority to: plan work of staff; set and adjust short-term work priorities; assign work based on priorities and staff capabilities; set standards and evaluate work performance of subordinates; interview candidates for positions in the work unit; hear and resolve complaints from employees; effect minor disciplinary measures; identify staff developmental and training needs; relate organizational policies to staff; and develop improved work production and quality.
 C. A senior staff or project manager with recurring responsibility for planning, developing, and implementing programs. This includes developing short and long-term action plans with milestones, identifying and managing fiscal resources, and managing work teams and advisory groups in the design of systems and programs.
 D. None of the above.
4. Which of the following most accurately describes your ability to provide information and guidance, persuade others to consider recommendations made/argue a position, and communicate abstract concepts and facts clearly and effectively to share with various entities of the intelligence and/or law enforcement communities?
 A. I have had formal training and/or education in communicating verbal and written information, persuading others to consider recommendations and defending my position, and expressing abstract concepts and facts clearly and effectively to share with various entities. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge or skill in work related situations.
 B. I have demonstrated experience assisting others in writing intelligence reports and manuals, developing instructions for use by field collectors, and briefing superiors, policy-makers and interagency task forces on intelligence matters in my area of responsibility.
 C. I have experience independently writing intelligence-related reports, manuals, or instructions for an assigned geographical area that served as part of a larger report or project or function for use by field collectors. I have demonstrated experience speaking, briefing, or debriefing others outside of the immediate organization on intelligence-related matters for an assigned geographical or functional area.
 D. I have experience preparing comprehensive/authoritative written intelligence products that document research and analytical efforts, including projections, conclusions, and recommendations. I've provided consultative services for projects in interrelated geographical or functional fields to top-echelon intra/inter-agency planning/working groups. I have experience briefing superiors, policy-makers and interagency task forces on intelligence matters.
 E. None of the above.
5. Select all the statements that apply to your use of written communications in dealing with intelligence issues. (Check all that apply).
 A. I have developed written materials on intelligence issues for briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 B. I have prepared written reports and correspondence on intelligence issues for signature by higher-level officials.
 C. I have communicated in writing to others intelligence strategies, goals, objectives and priorities.
 D. I have prepared intelligence reports for management and manuals or articles for publication on intelligence issues.
 E. I have reviewed intelligence reports prepared by others and provided recommendations and suggestions.
 F. None of the above.
6. Which of the following statements best describes your experience preparing materials for intelligence presentations/publications that include charts and graphs.
 A. I have performed this task on the job, with supervision.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by supervisor.
 C. I have trained others in the preparation of intelligence charts and graphs.
 D. None of the above.
7. Choose all the statements that best describe your highest level of building coalitions and communications (i.e. modeling professionalism; resolving differences of opinion; sharing information; developing rapport; considering factors in organizational and situational realities (internal and external) when determining how best to advance or achieve organizational objectives. (Check all that apply).
 A. I have effectively represented my organization internally through networking and communications to advance the organizations mission in order to ensure accomplishments of the organization’s goals and mission.
 B. I have worked with my Division PIO and HQ Legislative Affairs personnel to meet with Congressional leaders and media representatives within my area of responsibility to convey ATF’s accomplishments within their districts.
 C. I have interacted with Federal, State and local officials in handling complex investigative activities for successful investigations and prosecution of cases.
 D. I have no experience in this area.
8. Select all the statements that apply to your use of written communications in dealing with law enforcement intelligence issues. (Check all that apply).
 A. I have developed written materials on law enforcement intelligence issues for briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 B. I have prepared written reports and correspondence on law enforcement intelligence issues for signature by higher-level officials.
 C. I have communicated in writing to others law enforcement intelligence strategies, goals, objectives and priorities.
 D. I have prepared intelligence reports for management and manuals or articles for publication on intelligence issues.
 E. I have reviewed intelligence reports prepared by others and provided recommendations and suggestions.
 F. None of the above.
9. Check all the statements that describe your role in preparing analytical intelligence reports.(Check all that apply).
 A. I have provided input to colleagues who develop various analytical intelligence reports.
 B. I have worked with a team to plan, research, and conduct analysis for a wide range of analytical intelligence reports.
 C. I have routinely and independently drafted multiple, complex intelligence reports that contain original analysis, conclusions and recommendations.
 D. None of the above.
10. Choose the answer that best describes your ability to provide support to managers, a director and internal staff to achieve the goals of the overall activities of a Work Unit.
 A. I have not had experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function.
 B. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not used it on the job.
 C. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant.
 D. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant.
 E. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique and unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant to maintain work relationships outside my department.
11. Select the one answer choice that best describes your skill in being results driven (i.e. making timely decisions and producing results through strategic planning, performance measurements, and implementing and evaluating programs and policies).
 A. I have no experience in this area.
 B. I have personally developed short-and long-term goals that were applied in furthering investigative activities.
 C. I have assisted in formulating short- and long-term goals that were incorporated into strategic program plans to further investigative activities.
 D. I have experience in formulating strategic program plans that assesses investigative feasibility and developing realistic short- and long-term goals; setting investigative standards and ensuring accountability for achieving standards.
12. Please choose your best response which describes your skill level in delivery of course instructions and program objectives to an audience.
 A. I have demonstrated, significant skill in dealing with others. I work extremely well with meetings, work teams, small groups, and one on one. I take responsibility for work products and have experience leading work teams or facilitating teams. I have in-depth knowledge of mission objectives and resources required. I am able to make adjustments to these plans quickly and accurately when resources change. I perform these duties with minimal supervision.
 B. I have a moderate degree of skill in working with others. My participation on work teams demonstrates cooperation and collaboration. I work well with others on an individual basis, one on one. I am able to make adjustments quickly and to coordinate smoothly and accurately when resources change. I perform these duties with reasonable supervision.
 C. I have some skill in working with others. I am generally able to make accommodations to team requirements and working with others one on one. I perform these duties with reasonable supervision.
 D. I have limited skill in working with others. My experience is mainly with working one on one. I have never participated on work teams, and operate under close supervision.
 E. None of the above.
13. From the following list, select the statements that apply to your prior work experience. (Check all that apply).
 A. I have provided direct intelligence support to firearms trafficking investigations.
 B. I have provided direct intelligence support to explosives investigations.
 C. I have provided direct intelligence support to alcohol diversion investigations.
 D. I have provided direct intelligence support to cigarette smuggling investigations.
 E. I have provided direct intelligence support to investigations involving organized crime and gangs.
 F. I have provided direct intelligence support to law enforcement investigations, such as narcotics, money laundering, or terrorism.
 G. I have provided direct intelligence support to other types of law enforcement investigations.
 H. None of the above.
14. From the list below, select the one that best describes your experience in developing intelligence reports and assessments.
 A. Conducted research using open sources and databases.
 B. Conducted research using intelligence community reports, products, sources and databases.
 C. Completed a short report on an intelligence issue.
 D. Completed a major study on an intelligence issue.
 E. Participated as a subject matter expert in an inter-agency working group studying an issue.
 F. None of the above
15. Choose the statement that best describes your knowledge of intelligence databases and computer applications.
 A. I have extensive experience using intelligence databases and intelligence computer applications to perform analytical tasks and data searches.
 B. I have maintained computerized intelligence databases to meet the specific needs of the division and to generate statistical and relational reports.
 C. I have participated in the design of new intelligence database applications to be used as investigative/intelligence tools.
 D. I have experience in using computer systems to plan and develop intelligence collection programs and procedures.
 E. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
16. Do any of your relatives work for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives? Include: father; mother; husband; wife; son; daughter; brother; sister; uncle; aunt; first cousin; nephew; niece; father-in-law; mother-in-law; son-in-law; daughter-in-law; brother-in-law; sister-in-law; stepfather; stepmother; stepson; stepdaughter; stepbrother; stepsister; half-brother; and half-sister.
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. ATF employment is contingent upon a favorable adjudication (decision) of your background investigation. Your conduct and character must demonstrate suitability for the position for which you are applying. Unresolved matters may prevent completion of your background investigation or favorable adjudication of it. If ATF cannot complete your background investigation and adjudicate it, you will be removed from the hiring process. Are you willing to submit to the background investigation process?
 A. Yes
 B. No
18. The Department of Justice requires that you provide proof that for 3 out of the last 5 years you have resided in the United States, worked for the United States in a foreign country in a Federal or U.S. military capacity for 3 out of the last 5 years, and/or been a dependent of a Federal or U.S. military employee in a foreign country for 3 out of the last 5 years. Are you able to provide sufficient documentation to meet this residency requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
19. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected