Position Title
Mariner Training Auditor Compliance Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20250908-84124-49559-DB-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Current Federal Employee - Merit Promotion

Do you wish to be considered as a current Federal employee who meets one of the following criteria?

In a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)
OR
With an excepted service agency but can be hired into the competitive service because you meet the criteria of an Interchange Agreement. Additional information about current Interchange Agreements can be found here.
Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Current Federal Employee - Noncompetitive

Do you wish to be considered as a current Federal employee who meets one of the following criteria? I have held, or currently hold either:

A permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised
OR
An appointment with an excepted service agency but can be hired into the competitive service because I meet the criteria of an Interchange Agreement, with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised. Additional information about current Interchange Agreements can be found here.
Note: If your position referenced above is not on the GS pay scale, your pay must be at or above the representative rate (step 04) of the full performance level of this position. Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block 34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:

• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,

• are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

 For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources:  https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/veterans/.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5.

Are you a spouse of an Armed Forces service member who is appointable under Non-Competitive EO 13473 Civil Service Appointment of Military Spouses? You are eligible if you:

Are married to an active-duty service member who is ordered to active duty for more than 180 consecutive days; OR
Are the spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury; OR
Are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while on active duty.

You are required to support your claim with the documents below:

All military spouses must submit documentation verifying marriage to the service member (e.g., marriage certificate); AND
If you are married to an active-duty service member, documentation must include current military orders (e.g., statement of service) to support active-duty service for more than 180 consecutive days; OR
If you are a spouse of a 100% disabled service member, documentation must include service member's DD-214 and 100% service disability (e.g., VA Letter); OR
If you are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member killed while on active duty, documentation must include verification of service member's death while on active duty (e.g., DD-1300). For more information, please see OPM's Questions and Answers for Noncompetitive Appointment of Certain Military Spouses. 

Military spouses

Spouses of active-duty military members, spouses of former military members who are 100% disabled as documented by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or spouses of deceased members of the Armed Forces who have never remarried is eligible for remote work.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Were you employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee AND did you:

• complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appropriated fund position(s) as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an overseas area; AND,
• receive a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating; AND,
• return to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago? 

For more information, review USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees Resources:
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/former-overseas-employees/ 

 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, and performance appraisal.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Former Federal Employee - Merit Promotion

Do you wish to be considered as a former Federal Employee in the civilian service who previously held a position that was in the competitive service and is eligible to be reinstated? (See block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type) More information about the eligibility requirements for reinstatement can be found here. Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment. It is also recommended that you submit the SF-50 showing your separation.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Former Federal Employee - Noncompetitive

Do you wish to be considered as a former Federal employee who previously held a permanent position that was in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised? NoteNote: If your position referenced above is not on the GS pay scale, your pay must be at or above the representative rate (step 04) of the full performance level of this position. Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block 34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?
 
- OR -
 
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?
 
- OR -
 
Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management? 

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

-OR-

Are you a current: 
Postal Career Service Employee
Postal Rate Commission Employee
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee
Veteran Heath Administration
Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) employees of the Department of Defense
Tennessee Valley Authority
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Federal Aviation Administration
Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Security Administration
AmeriCorps formerly Corporation for National and Community Service
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated by U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?


If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.


For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:

• served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
• are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. USAJOBS Veterans resources

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
recently separated (within the past 3 years);
are a disabled veteran;
served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition; OR,
received an Armed Forces Service Medal?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, you must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Boston, MA
 B. Charleston, SC
 C. Houston, TX
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Mariner Training Auditor Compliance Specialist, GS-1801-11 with the US Coast Guard. Your resume and the responses you provide to the assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
Select the response below that best describes your skill and ability to perform the work of a Mariner Training Auditor Compliance Specialist, GS-1801-11. Please provide evidence of this skill and ability in your resume. Select only one response.
1. Choose the answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position.
 A. I have 1-year specialized experience equivalent to GS-9, regulatory experience in interpreting and applying laws, regulations and policy during audits, or inspection activities, or compliance activities. Ability to prepare professional audit reports, or inspection reports or investigation reports for dissemination to the public, or audit target, or inter agency/organization. Experience and ability interacting with the public face to face and through electronic and/or written communications. Experience in conducting at least one of the following: ISO related audits, marine inspections, educational institution audits or inspections, instructing practical assessments, or investigating casualties or product and/or system failures. And proficiency with word processing software, email, and electronic databases for recording results or obtaining information or analyzing information.
 B. My experience does not match the above choices.
2. From the following list, select the types of software applications you have used independently to perform work activities. (Select all that apply).
 A. Word Processing (e.g., MS Word)
 B. Database (e.g., MS Access, MySQL, Oracle, Report Net)
 C. Spreadsheet (e.g., MS Excel)
 D. Presentation (e.g., MS PowerPoint)
 E. Communications/Information Management (e.g., MS Outlook)
 F. Web Page Authoring (e.g. Dreamweaver MX and Microsoft SharePoint Designer)
 G. Internet Browser (e.g., MS Internet Explorer, Firefox, and Apple’s Safari)
 H. Graphics Applications (e.g. Photoshop and Illustrator)
 I. Desktop Publishing applications (e.g. Adobe InDesign)
 J. Project Management applications (e.g., MS Project, Visio)
 K. Flowcharting (e.g., Visio)
 L. None of the above
3. From the following list, which maritime laws, regulations, or standards do you have experience interpreting and applying? (Select all that apply).
 A. Titles 33 of the Code of Federal Regulations
 B. Titles 46 of the Code of Federal Regulations
 C. International Convention of the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS)
 D. International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL)
 E. International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers (STCW)
 F. International Safety Management (ISM) Code
 G. Marine Safety Manual
 H. Navigation and vessel Inspection Circulars
 I. Technical standards of vessel engineering societies related to inspection
 J. Technical standards of vessel engineering societies related to manning
 K. Technical standards of vessel engineering societies related to pollution prevention
 L. None of the above
4. Which auditing task have you performed? (Select all that apply)
 A. I have overseen an auditing program. (e.g., Lead or Principal auditor)
 B. I have trained others on auditing techniques.
 C. I have recommended corrective actions.
 D. I have followed up on the completion of corrective actions.
 E. I have provided training on techniques to resolve audit deficiencies.
 F. I have provided briefings on audit results.
 G. I have re-assessed a program for improvements.
 H. None of the above.
5. Which types of documents have you written? (Select all that apply)
 A. Training curricula
 B. Policy or procedures
 C. Reports
 D. Memoranda
 E. None of the above
6. Choose the statements the describes the written communication skills you have demonstrated as a regular part of your job. (Select all that apply)
 A. None of the above.
 B. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings or conferences.
 C. Drafted policy and procedural materials for dissemination to field or operating level components.
 D. Drafted reports, memoranda and correspondence for signature by higher-level officials.
 E. Composed complex correspondence or other written work such as manuals, books, management reports or articles.
 F. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 G. Served as a troubleshooter to analyze a particular problem area/issue and provided a full written response outlining findings and recommendations.
 H. Published an article, thesis or formal report.
7. Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience auditing an educational course to ensure it is conducted in accordance with the curriculum.
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
8. Which response best describes your highest level of experience auditing maritime training records for compliance with regulations and standards.
 A. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 B. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees.
 D. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
9. Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience interpreting and applying legal guidelines to individual situations or circumstances.
 A. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 B. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees.
 D. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
10. I have experience interpreting federal regulations and laws as they apply to the following: (Select all that apply).
 A. Merchant mariners
 B. Commercial vessels
 C. Educational institutions or training providers
 D. None of the above
11. Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience implementing recommendations for corrective or improvement actions needed based on audit findings.
 A. I have followed organizational policy and procedure to develop work products associated with this task.
 B. I have designed, documented, and implemented organizational procedures to accomplish this task.
 C. I have reviewed and approved organizational policy and/or procedures to accomplish this task.
 D. I have reviewed and approved work products associated with this task.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
12. Select the response that best describes your level of experience as a qualified Marine inspector or Port State Control Examiner.
 A. I have completed education and some training as a marine inspector or port state control examiner, but no qualifications.
 B. I am qualified and have experience as a qualified port state control examiner.
 C. I am qualified and have experience as a qualified mariner inspector.
 D. I have no experience as a qualified marine inspector or port state control examiner.
13. Which instructional materials have you developed? (Select all that apply).
 A. Lesson plans
 B. Course materials
 C. Visual aids
 D. Course exercises
 E. None of the above
14. Which tasks have you performed to oversee Merchant marine training courses/programs provided by educational institution? (Select all that apply).
 A. Developed courses
 B. Delivered courses
 C. Audited courses for content
 D. None of the above
15. Which tasks have you performed to implement Quality Standards Systems? (Select all that apply)?
 A. Audited Quality Standards Systems
 B. Developed Quality Standards Systems
 C. Revised Quality Standards Systems
 D. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected