Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-MRSD-25-12781976 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 13, 2025 to Friday, August 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
• are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is currently on Active Duty? 

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must provide a valid copy of the marriage certificate or other documentation verifying marriage (such as any official documentation verifying a recognized common law marriage) and a copy of the orders verifying the military member is currently on active duty.

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Were you employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee AND did you:
• complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appropriated fund position(s) as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an overseas area; AND,
• receive a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating; AND,
• return to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago?

For more information, review USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, and performance appraisal.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you meet one of the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities:
• Current Federal or former employees with career or career-conditional appointments in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced; or,
• Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) eligibles

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation. For example, a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status or a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment or did you obtain career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) and have never held the full performance level of this position?

-OR-

Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and have not held the full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your separation SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Have you completed at least 1 year of continuous service immediately before separation from one or more nontemporary Foreign Service appointments; AND, your separation from a Foreign Service career-type appointment occurred in the last 3 years (individuals entitled to veteran's preference do not need to meet this 3-year requirement)?

-OR-

Have you completed at least 3 years of substantially continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in the Foreign Service immediately before separation from an unlimited, career-type appointment in that Service?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your nontemporary status. If you are outside of the 3-year requirement but are entitled to veteran's preference, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?

-OR-

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service at the same grade level as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential?

-OR-

Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment or have you obtained career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) and have held the same grade as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.

-OR-

Are you a current:
• Postal Career Service Employee;
• Postal Rate Commission Employee;
• Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,
• Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee?

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
• served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
• are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
• recently separated (within the past 3 years);
• are a disabled veteran;
• served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition; OR,
• received an Armed Forces Service Medal?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, you must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Glynco, GA
 B. Cheltenham, MD
 C. Artesia, NM
 D. North Charleston, SC
FLETC Data
1. I am willing and able to complete an OGE 450, Confidential Financial Disclosure Report, within 30 days of starting federal employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.

Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past. To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

 A. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year.
 B. No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim.
 C. Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
 D. No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the federal government) so this is not applicable to me.
3. How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other
4. Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 A. Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 B. Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 C. Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 D. Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 E. Unacceptable/Fail
 F. None of the above
5. Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above
6. List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).
7. I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. The Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers does not recognize academic degrees (including any coursework leading to a degree) from schools that are not accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education. Any applicant falsely claiming an academic degree from an accredited school will be subject to actions ranging from disqualification from federal employment to removal from federal service. Please review the following link to determine your school's accreditation status: Accreditation: Postsecondary Education Institutions | U.S. Department of Education.
 A. I certify that my academic degree (or degrees) is from a college or university accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education.
 B. I have an academic degree (or degrees) from a college or university that is NOT accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education.
 C. I do not have an academic degree.
9. You must submit a copy of your college transcript (unofficial is acceptable) from an accredited institution listing the college/university, degree confirmation date(s) and applicable courses for the position you are applying to.

If selected, applicants must provide an official college transcript prior to appointment.

I have submitted a copy of my transcript with all required information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. FLETC will ONLY review the first 5 pages of your resume in order to make any determinations regarding your qualifications for the position. Anything after 5 pages will not be reviewed. Please ensure that there is no PII or photographs on your resume. Only one resume with the latest time stamp will be reviewed, if there are additional resumes, they will not be reviewed.
 A. Yes, I understand the above statement.
 B. No, I do not understand the above statement.
11. As the applicant, it is your responsibility to ensure that your application is complete.

We ask that if you have multiple documents of the same kind, that you combine them into one document, and then upload/attach into the correct folder. (e.g. if you have multiple SF-50s, we ask you to combine them into one PDF file and then upload under the SF-50 folder. DO NOT SUBMIT any AWARD SF 50s.

Please ensure that you upload any documents into the correct folder.

Please know that you can make changes as needed to your application as many times as you need to, as long as the announcement is still open.
 A. Yes, I understand the statement above.
 B. No, I do not understand the statement above.
Assessment 1
Please ensure your responses below are supported by information in your resume, if your resume does not reflect the responses you selected below, you could be removed from further consideration.
Some questions may have more than one response.
ONLY the first 5 pages of a your resume will be reviewed and used to make the determination if you meet the qualifications for the position. 
1. Select the statement that best describes your education as it pertains to the Basic Requirements for this position. Contracting Series, 1102 (opm.gov) (https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualification-standards/1100/contracting-series-1102/), please refer to the link for further details about the Positive Education Requirement for the 1102 series. You must provide a copy of all your transcripts. 
 A. I have successfully completed a four-year course of study, leading to a bachelor's degree. Submit a photocopy of your official transcripts.
 B. I have completed at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Submit a photocopy of your official transcripts.
 C. I occupied a GS-1102 Federal civilian service position at the GS-11 grade level on January 1, 2000. Submit a copy of the SF-50 for this time period.
 D. None of the above.
2. Select the statement that best describes your experience or education for a Contract Specialist, GS-1102-11.
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service procuring and administering contracts and orders for supplies, services, equipment and/or construction requirements; performing market analysis, requesting and evaluating Requests for Proposals, Invitation for Bids and Requests for Quotations; and determining appropriate simplified acquisition method and/or contracting method to be used.
 B. I have completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 C. I possess an equivalent combination of graduate education and specialized experience. (Only graduate education in excess of the first 36 semester hours will be combined with the specialized experience).
 D. None of the above.
3. Select the type(s) of procedure(s) you have used as a Contract Specialist or warranted Contracting Officer to accomplish pre-award functions for service contracts. Please ensure that your response is supported by your resume.
 A. Simplified acquisition procedures.
 B. Commercial item procedures.
 C. Sealed bid procedures.
 D. Negotiated procedures.
 E. None of the above.
4. From the list below select the statement(s) that best describes your experience communicating with individuals involved in the contracts process.
 A. I have provided customers with acquisition support in a one-to-one situation.
 B. I have provided contractual guidance in a team/group environment.
 C. I have conducted negotiations for modifications in person or by phone.
 D. I have established customer service relationships where differences must be negotiated, and effective communication developed.
 E. I have negotiated with others to reach a solution.
 F. I have PREPARED briefings, case discussions or information sessions to customers, peers, management, and others.
 G. I have PRESENTED briefings, case discussions or information sessions to customers, peers, management, and others.
 H. I have interacted with government personnel such as Small Business Specialist, Environmental Specialist, Engineer/Architect, Project Manager, Legal Counsel, etc., to ensure that everyone understands the common goal of the contract action.
 I. I have experience communicating orally and in writing with contractors and program personnel on complex performance problems.
 J. I have experience communicating orally and in writing with contractors and program personnel on issues related to the need for expedited or increased action from the program/project manager.
 K. None of the above.
5. Select the statement(s) that best describes your experience accomplishing special projects and short turnaround assignments.
 A. I have experience rearranging workload priorities to accommodate special projects and short turnaround assignments while maintaining a timely and high-quality level of performance on other assigned actions.
 B. I have experience dealing with assignments that are "out-of-the-ordinary", oftentimes with program personnel that have no prior experience with government contracts.
 C. I have experience completing projects under a great deal of pressure to meet extremely short deadlines while dealing with demands for action that may be improbable or unfeasible.
 D. None of the above.
6. From the list below, select the software application(s) you are proficient in (proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the system's functionalities/capabilities).
 A. Microsoft Access.
 B. Adobe.
 C. Federal Procurement Data System (FPDS).
 D. Microsoft Excel.
 E. Microsoft Outlook.
 F. Microsoft PowerPoint.
 G. Microsoft Word.
 H. Microsoft Office SharePoint System.
 I. Past Performance Information Retrieval Systems (PPIRS).
 J. Purchase Request Information System (PRISM).
 K. System for Award Management (SAM).
 L. None of the above.
7. From the list below select the actions you have performed.
 A. Pre-award actions including market research.
 B. Determined if waiver of small business reservation is needed.
 C. Have written the justification to support full and open competition for actions which initially indicate a set-aside would be appropriate.
 D. Determined whether an acquisition should be procured using commercial item method.
 E. Prepared Requests for Proposals from a template or an automatic contracting writing system, including determining the appropriate clauses to be included.
 F. Developed Requests for Proposals and the resulting order from scratch using the FAR Matrix without the support of a template or an automatic contract writing system.
 G. Solicited and awarded actions using Federal Supply Schedules such as GSA.
 H. Evaluated proposals for past performance, technical and/or pricing.
 I. Conducted negotiations.
 J. Prepared pre-negotiation objective memorandums.
 K. Prepared negotiation memorandums.
 L. Awarded the resulting contracts.
 M. None of the above
8. From the list below select the contracting functions you have performed as a warranted Contracting Officer with limited or no supervision.
 A. Participated in collection of market research to determine socio-economic set aside.
 B. Developed the solicitation document (including clause selection and proper wage rates) for general supply and services over the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
 C. Prepared Source Selection Plan.
 D. Served as member on a technical evaluation board.
 E. Served as chair on a technical evaluation board.
 F. Served as a member on a past performance evaluation board.
 G. Served as a chair on a past performance evaluation board.
 H. Served as a member on a price evaluation board.
 I. Served as a chair on a price evaluation board.
 J. Prepared a past performance evaluation board report.
 K. Prepared a price evaluation board report.
 L. Prepared a recommendation for the Source Selection Authority for award using a tradeoff approach.
 M. Awarded actions under GSA contracts.
 N. Prepared contract(s) for award.
 O. Planned and conducted pre-award conference.
 P. Prepared response to protest.
 Q. Prepared debrief memorandum.
 R. Prepared debrief letter(s).
 S. Held debrief conference.
 T. None of the above.
9. From the list below select the contracting functions you have performed as a warranted Contracting Officer with limited or no supervision.

 A. Initiated proposal requests and prepared modifications for issuance.
 B. Unilaterally definitized change orders or equitable adjustments.
 C. Bilaterally definitized change orders or equitable adjustments.
 D. Reviewed contracts for closet out.
 E. Prepared pre-negotiation objective memorandums for modifications.
 F. Prepared post-negotiation memorandums for modifications.
 G. Performed labor wage interviews under the Davis Bacon Act.
 H. Reviewed invoices for general supply and services.
 I. Reviewed payrolls under Davis Bacon Act.
 J. Prepared recommendations for disposition of claim.
 K. Approved CPARS performance assessments.
 L. Approved ACASS performance assessments.
 M. Approved CCASS performance assessments.
 N. Drafted Termination for Convenience memorandum.
 O. Drafted Termination for Default memorandum.
 P. Issued a Contracting Officer's final decision on a claim.
 Q. None of the above.
10. Select the types of acquisitions you have performed PRE-AWARD administration as a warranted Contracting Officer.
 A. A&E contracts, in excess of the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
 B. A&E contracts, in excess of $2.5 million.
 C. Construction contracts, in excess of the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
 D. Construction contracts, in excess of $50 million.
 E. General supply and service contract, in excess of the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
 F. General supply and service contract, below the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
 G. None of the above.
11. Select the types of acquisitions you have performed POST-AWARD administration as a warranted Contracting Officer.
 A. A&E contracts, in excess of the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
 B. A&E contracts, in excess of $2.5 million.
 C. Construction contracts, in excess of the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
 D. Construction contracts, in excess of $50 million.
 E. Construction contracts awarded as a Guaranteed Maximum Price.
 F. General supply and services contracts, in excess of the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
 G. General supply and services contracts, below the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
 H. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
12. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected