Position Title
Advanced Practice Nurse (Practitioner/Ambulatory)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT257526294670HWR Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Advanced Practice Nurse (Practitioner/Ambulatory) position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Advanced Practice Nurse (Practitioner/Ambulatory) at the GS-0610-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained; OR if you are a graduate from a foreign nursing school, official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required.

 A. I have successfully completed a graduate or higher level Advanced Practice Nurse (Practitioner/Ambulatory) degree from an accredited educational program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts or your certificate from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools.)
 B. I do not possess the education described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. The Advanced Practice Nurse (Practitioner/Ambulatory) occupation requires passing the National Council Licensure Examination and possession of a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. Do you possess an active, current registration as a professional nurse in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States? (Note: You must attach a copy of your registration.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. The Advanced Practice Nurse (Practitioner/Ambulatory) occupation requires a licensure or registration by a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States as an Advanced Practice Nurse (Practitioner/Ambulatory). Do you possess licensure or registration by a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States in the clinical specialty required by the position? (Note: You must attach a copy of your licensure or registration.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Advanced Practice Nurse (Practitioner/Ambulatory) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 A. I have at least one or more full years of professional nursing experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes evaluating the wellness status of patients; making appropriate diagnosis based on history, physical exams, and laboratory tests; and providing counseling and teaching services to individuals, families, and/or groups.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
5. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected