Position Title
Chief Resident Services
Agency
Armed Forces Retirement Home
Announcement Number
25-AFRH-12765565-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 16, 2025 to Thursday, August 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-14 level: You must have at least one year of experience at or equivalent to the GS-13 level in the federal service that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. Specialized experience is defined as:
Applying management techniques and methodologies in the development of programs for a healthcare environment, such as admissions, recreation services, food services, chaplain programs, and volunteer programs; AND
Providing administrative direction in a healthcare environment, to include: budget development and management, recruiting and staffing, authorizing personnel actions, conducting performance reviews, or conducting grievance hearings; AND
Leading a performance improvement committee to correct, monitor and maintain deficiencies that may affect a healthcare institution's accreditation, and preparing for and involvement in a healthcare agency's recurring accreditation process, such as with the Joint Commission.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you meet all requirements of the specialized experience as defined above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
1a. Please give the dates and titles from your resume that reference when and where you gained this experience. (limit 200 characters)
2. From the choices below, select the best answer that describes your experience recommending improvements and revisions in budget policies and guidelines. Choose only one.
 A. I have provided advice and recommendations to top agency officials or comparable level positions on a regular and recurring basis in the area of budgeting.
 B. I have provided advice to senior managers resulting from changes in laws, regulations, or administration policies.
 C. I have made recommendations to managers in the area of budgeting that resulted in operational procedural changes.
 D. None of the above.
3. From the choices below, select the best answer that describes your experience preparing periodic budget forecasts to ensure compliance with current funding levels. Choose only one.
 A. I have assisted in preparing official quarterly or annual reports; reviewed, analyzed, consolidated, or revised budget estimates and justification statements submitted by subordinate organizational segments or field components.
 B. I have advised budget staff on the necessity for and type of budgetary action to be implemented to meet the agency needs.
 C. I have recommended requests for allotments or other similar funding requests; I have reviewed financial and workload relationships that involve several matters.
 D. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. I have experience as a qualified contracting officer representative (COR).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I have performed duties in a senior leadership position in an organization.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Select the answer that best describes your experience in a leadership position where you directed the work of a team of people accomplishing a task. Choose only one.
 A. I have held a supervisory position where I assigned work tasks and checked on the progress and quality of the work.
 B. I have held a team lead position, where I handed work tasks out, but also took on some of the tasks myself. I checked on the progress and quality of the work of others as they completed the tasks.
 C. I have been a member of a team, not in an official work leadership position, but the quality of my work and my productivity lead others to seek my advice on work related issues.
 D. None of the above.
7. From the list below, select the response(s) that demonstrate your experience building and maintaining effective relationships with key stakeholders and employees. Select all that apply.
 A. I have maintained personal contacts with key senior officials and provided advice and guidance on communication strategies and their impact on stakeholders.
 B. I have collaborated with upper level management to develop internal and external communication goals such as for media and community groups.
 C. I have represented my organization in meetings with external individuals and/or organizations.
 D. I have developed and maintained relationships with an organizations internal staff for purposes of preparing information materials.
 E. None of the above.
8. I have performed the following HR function(s). Select all that apply.
 A. Investigated alleged employee misconduct, to include detailed interviews with employees and supervisors.
 B. Worked with management to respond to employee grievances.
 C. Recommended appropriate disciplinary actions for employee misconduct.
 D. Advised management on how to address employee performance issues.
 E. Interviewed candidates for positions.
 F. Developed performance standards and conducted employee evaluations in a timely manner.
 G. Monitored contracts to ensure that services and products are provided under terms of the contract.
 H. None of the above.
9. From the list below, select the response that demonstrate your experience working with military veterans. Choose only one.
 A. I have experience working directly with military veterans.
 B. I have worked indirectly with military veterans.
 C. None of the above.
10. From the list below, select the response(s) that demonstrate your experience with Performance Improvement (PI). Choose all that apply.
 A. I have been a team leader on a Performance Improvement committee.
 B. I have experience developing Performance Improvement measurements.
 C. I have knowledge of Performance Improvement.
 D. I do not know what Performance Improvement is.
11. From the list below, select the response that best demonstrates your experience that directly relates to working with service contracts. Choose only one.
 A. I have had direct oversight of service contracts for areas that include religious services, recreation, dining, custodial and/or entertainment programs.
 B. I have had indirect oversight of service contracts for areas that include religious services, recreation, dining, custodial and/or entertainment programs.
 C. I have experience performing analytical work to support religious services, recreation, dining, custodial and/or entertainment programs.
 D. None of the above.
12. From the choices below, please identify the statement(s) that reflect your experience in communicating information orally. Select all that apply.
 A. Given oral presentations to individuals both within and outside my organization.
 B. Given oral presentations to senior management officials for purposes of obtaining decisions.
 C. Orally presented decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations to senior management officials.
 D. Provided oral briefings/updates to supervisors, coworkers, or others on a regular basis.
 E. Provided one-on-one instruction to others on human resources issues.
 F. Served as an expert providing testimony on a human resources subject or issue.
 G. Led informal discussions on the subject of human resources where I facilitated an open exchange of ideas and communications.
 H. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. Do you have experience overseeing a work group that meets DOD IG or other survey standards of an organization?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected