Position Title
Supervisory Prosthetics Representative
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12810263-26-JLC Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 9, 2025 to Tuesday, October 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Prosthetic Representative position at the Gainesville VA Healthcare System. This assessment questionnaire is used to assist in determining your qualification and eligibility. Please answer each question truthfully and be sure to review your answers prior to submission.  Please be sure to submit all required documents and to ensure you are demonstrating your qualifications, knowledge, skills and abilities on your resume as we will NOT make assumptions. 

Creditable Experience. To be creditable, the experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with Prosthetic Representative responsibilities. The experience is only creditable if documented in the application and verifiable through employment references and/or other means. Examples of qualifying experience include experience in a health care setting, and familiarity with home medical equipment, rehabilitation, home oxygen, visual or hearing impairment, assistive technology, orthotics, or prosthetics.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS

The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


1.
Experience and Education.  Individual must meet at least one of the requirements below.
Experience. One year of creditable experience that demonstrates: Knowledge of basic anatomy and medical terminology; knowledge of accounting methods; ability to research, analyze, comprehend, and apply decisions; basic knowledge of inventory management procedures; ability to use computer software packages for word processing, spreadsheet development, and database management; and ability to work independently and as a member of a team;
OR,
Education. A bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours could include but is not limited to any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree;
OR,
Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.

Do you meet the required education, experience or education/experience combination above?
 I have one year of creditable experience that demonstrates the KSA's of a Prosthetic Representative.
 I have a bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business.
 I have a combination of experience and education.
 I do not have experience as a Prosthetic Representative and do not have a bachelor's degree and 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration or business.


GRADE DETERMINATION

The following is used to determine if you meet the grade requirements for a Supervisory Prosthetic Representative. Your responses are subject to verification and must be demonstrated in your resume. Please be as detailed as possible in your resume and ensure you demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position. No assumptions will be made.  

The supervisor is responsible for the supervision, administrative management, and direction of assigned PSAS staff. The supervisor is delegated full administrative and professional responsibility for planning and directing the staff activities for the section or equivalent work unit. Program areas of responsibility include, but are not limited to, procurement; PSAS clinical services, customer service/reception, inventory management associated with medical, rehabilitative, and durable medical equipment devices, home durable medical equipment deliver/set-up/installation. visual or hearing devices, assistive technology, orthotics/prosthetics, PSAS contract development, management and oversight of contract programs, such as home oxygen, durable medical equipment, orthotics/prosthetics, and eyeglasses, and benefit programs, such as home and structural alterations, automobile adaptive equipment, clothing allowance. They serve as contract officer representative for PSAS contracts and chair facility committees and administer benefit programs. The Supervisor provides education and training to Veterans, caregivers, VA clinical teams and PSAS staff. The Supervisor assures compliance with accrediting agency and regulatory requirements; establishes and monitors performance and quality metrics; reviews and modifies work processes to achieve optimal efficiency and effectiveness; ensures customer satisfaction; and takes corrective actions as needed. He/She develops policies and procedures; manages document control; develops performance standards, position descriptions and functional statements; and is responsible for professional and administrative management of an assigned area to include budget execution. Approves and disapproves employee leave requests; monitors time and attendance; and ensures that all requests for hiring, promotions, awards and disciplinary actions are justified and carried out according to appropriate VA Human Resources policies and procedures. The supervisor maintains interdepartmental relations with other services to accomplish medical center goals.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Experience. At least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level, which are:
Ability to work independently to set priorities; delegate tasks; meet multiple deadlines; analyze organizational problems; and develop and implement effective solutions to optimize quality, efficiency, performance, and productivity.
Ability to work with a team, to provide technical guidance, plan, organize, and coordinate activities to effectively complete job duties of assignment, such as distributing workload; and monitoring the accuracy, status and progress of work.
Ability to communicate tactfully and effectively, both orally and in writing, to meet program objectives. This may include preparing reports in various formats and presenting data to various organizational levels.
Ability to assist in staff development, outcome management, and strategic planning.
Ability to act as liaison between staff to resolve informal employee complaints and concerns.
Knowledge of rehabilitative treatment goals and strategies that are unique to patients in specialized programs and knowledge of those specific program requirements. 

Do you possess 1 full year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level?
 Yes
 No


3.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: 
Leadership and managerial skills, including skill in interpersonal relations and conflict resolution to deal with employees, team leaders, and managers.
Ability to perform the full range of supervisory duties, including responsibility for assignment of work to be performed; evaluation of performance; selection of staff; and recommendation of awards, advancements, and disciplinary actions.
Ability to manage a health care program that provides home medical equipment, rehabilitation services, home oxygen, visual or hearing impairment devices, assistive technology, orthotics, or prosthetics.
Skill in coordinating work flow and work assignments.
Ability to counsel patients and work effectively with a clinical team to resolve conflict.

Are you able to demonstrate the KSAs outlined above?
 Yes
 No


Note: Please ensure your resume/CV/application contains sufficient information to support the level of experience/education/training; otherwise, we will not be able to award you credit for the experience/education/training you claim.



4.
Verification Statement - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your application not being considered for this position.
 
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


REMINDER Current, permanent federal employees must submit recent SF-50 from the past 12 months which clearly shows current, permanent federal eligibility. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
General adjustment/Cost of living Increase
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
Promotions SF-50's at the highest grade held within the past year
Cash Award, benefit changes or time off Awards 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted.
Please check your electronic official personnel folder (eOPF) for your most recent SF-50. HR will not contact you for more info or documents. You can attach more than 1 SF50. All current, permanent federal employees applicants must ensure that they have included one or more SF50's showing current, permanent employment status in the past 12 months.



REMINDER - You must provide a complete application package which includes:
Resume - Your resume must include the following information  for each job listed:
Job title and Grade Level (for Federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Your full resume may be uploaded without page limitation into the 'Other' document uploaded field.
Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙