Position Title
Controller
Agency
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts
Announcement Number
26-DAS-12786352 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 3, 2025 to Friday, October 2, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current employee of the AO or the Federal Judiciary?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former Federal employee?

All applicants outside of the AO must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) to verify current or former Federal employment status.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Controller position with the federal government. Applicants must have demonstrated experience as listed below. This requirement is according to the AO Classification, Compensation, and Recruitment Systems which include interpretive guidance and reference to the OPM Operating Manual for Qualification Standards for General Schedule Positions.

WHEN MANDATORY NARRATIVE RESPONSES ARE REQUIRED, PLEASE DO NOT DUPLICATE INFORMATION YOU HAVE ALREADY PROVIDED IN YOUR RESUME AS A RESPONSE TO THIS QUESTION. WE ARE SEEKING AN ELABORATION OF THOSE DUTIES AND SKILLS YOU HAVE MENTIONED WHICH ADDRESS THE QUESTION MORE FULLY. THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND ON YOUR EXPERIENCE AND/OR EDUCATION AS IT RELATES TO THE QUESTION. FAILURE TO DO THIS WILL RESULT IN YOUR BEING CONSIDERED AS INELIGIBLE.


1.
The basic qualifications can be met in one of three ways. From the descriptions below, select the one that best describes the education and/or experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform Controller work.
 Degree in accounting or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that includes or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting and/or auditing. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED
 A combination of education and experience; at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge and included at least one of the following: 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality (this can include up to 6 hours of business law); or a certificate as certified public accountant or a certified internal auditor, obtained through written examination. TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED
 Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph 1, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements. TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described in any of the above statements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-15/JSP-15/CL 31, or equivalent level?
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants must have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience which provides evidence of progressively responsible leadership experience that is indicative of executive level managerial capability and directly related to the skills and abilities outlined in the Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQs) and Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) listed in the vacancy announcement. Specialized experience for this position is defined as follows:
Managing and directing large-scale financial management programs for a federal, state, or local government agency or organization. 
Managing accounting functions and applying Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and accounting practices. 
Procurement, information technology, and federal budgeting processes.
 Yes, I have one year of specialized experience which is in or directly related to the line of work of this position.
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience described above.


4.
If A is selected above, a narrative statement must be submitted in the space provided below addressing your experience managing and directing large-scale financial management programs for a federal, state, or local government agency or organization. THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your response to 500 words or less.


5.
If A is selected above, a narrative statement must be submitted in the space provided below addressing your experience managing accounting functions and applying Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and accounting practices. THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your response to 500 words or less.


6.
If A is selected above, a narrative statement must be submitted in the space provided below addressing your experience in procurement, information technology, and federal budgeting processes. THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your response to 500 words or less.


7.
From the options listed below, please select the years of executive-level experience you possess in managing accounting operations and financial management programs for a federal, state, or local government agency or organization.
 10 or more years.
 5-10 years.
 1-5 years.
 Less than 1 year.


8.
From the list below, which certification(s) do you possess? (Check all that apply)
 A. Certified Government Auditing Professional
 B. Certified Government Financial Manager
 C. Certified Management Accountant
 D. Certified Public Accountant
 E. Project Management Professional
 F. None of the above.


A narrative response for each of the following Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQs) is MANDATORY and must be addressed in a separate document that is submitted with your application.


Please provide a statement describing your ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing with other executive levels both within and outside the federal sector, elected or appointed officials, and subordinates on matters of broad scope and complexity, concerning financial management issues that affect the Judiciary, legal associations, and other federal, state, and local agencies and authorities. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your ability to solve problems of broad scope and complexity, such as those that occur in managing and directing programs of national scope. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your ability to advance communications, promote good relations, accountability, leadership, and service among subordinate staff, the courts, and other federal agencies to ensure operational effectiveness and streamline business processes. (Please provide your response in a separate document)


A narrative response for each of the following Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) is MANDATORY. Exception: applicants currently serving in an AOES and Court Unit Executive positions or under a career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointment, eligible for reinstatement into SES, or have successfully completed a SES Candidate Development Program (CDP) approved by OPM are not required to submit a narrative response for the Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ). All other applicants must submit responses to the ECQs.


Please provide a statement describing your experience LEADING CHANGE. This core qualification involves experience in developing and implementing an organizational vision, which integrates key national and program goals, priorities, values, and other factors. The incumbent must be able to develop new insights into situations, question conventional approaches, encourage new ideas and innovations, and design and implement new or cutting-edge programs and processes. The incumbent must also be able to think strategically, formulate objectives and priorities, and implement plans consistent with the long-term interests of the organization in a global environment while capitalizing on opportunities, managing risks, and overcoming obstacles. (Key Competencies: Creativity and Innovation, Continual Learning, External Awareness, Flexibility, Resilience, Strategic Thinking, Vision) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your experience LEADING PEOPLE. This core qualification involves experience in designing and implementing strategies, which maximize employee potential and foster high ethical standards in meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals, including adherence to EEO guidelines. This includes fostering a work environment where individual differences are valued, managed, and leveraged to achieve, through teamwork, the vision and mission of the organization. The incumbent should be able to develop others to perform and contribute to the organization by providing ongoing feedback and providing opportunities to learn through formal and informal methods. This includes taking a long-term view and building a shared vision with others, acting as a catalyst for organizational change, and influencing others to translate vision into action. (Key Competencies: Organizational Awareness, Interpersonal Skills, Integrity/Honesty, Conflict Management, Team Building, Developing Others) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your BUSINESS ACUMEN. This core qualification involves experience in building and managing a workforce based on organizational goals and staffing needs. It also involves ensuring that employees are appropriately recruited, selected, appraised, and rewarded, and taking action to address performance plans. The incumbent should have experience in managing a multi-sector workforce and a variety of work situations, and in developing and managing budgets and contracts. This includes keeping up to date on technological developments, making effective use of technology to achieve results, and ensuring access to and security of technology systems. (Key Competencies: Financial Management, Human Resources Management, Technology Management, Procurement Management) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your experience with RESULTS-DRIVEN skills. This core qualification involves experience in stressing accountability and continuous improvement, making timely and effective decisions, and producing results through strategic planning and the implementation and evaluation of programs and policies. The incumbent should have the requisite technical knowledge to identify and pursue appropriate outcomes, as well as practical experience in anticipating and meeting the needs of both internal and external customers, delivering high-quality products and services, and resolving issues and problems. (Key Competencies: Accountability, Customer Service, Decisiveness, Entrepreneurship, Problem Solving, Technical Credibility) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


Please provide a statement describing your experience BUILDING COALITIONS/COMMUNICATION. This core qualification involves experience in developing networks, building alliances, and collaborating across boundaries to build strategic relationships and achieving common goals. This core qualification also involves identifying the internal and external politics that impact the work of the organization. The incumbent should have experience in persuading others, building consensus through give and take, and gaining cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals. (Key Competencies: Influencing/Negotiating, Oral Communication, Written Communication, Partnering) (Please provide your response in a separate document)


9.
Applicants who meet the specialized experience requirements also will be assessed on Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQ) and Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ). Each of the MTQ must be addressed in your resume, and a separate response to each ECQ is mandatory and must be addressed in a separate document that is submitted with your application. Please limit your response to two pages for each MTQ & ECQ.
 A. Yes, I have addressed each MTQ in my resume, and each ECQ with a narrative response in a separate document that is attached to my application, and I have responded to the specialized experience narrative statement.
 B. No, I did not address each ECQ with a narrative response in a separate document. I have held or am currently in an AOES/SES position, have held an AOES/SES position or have successfully completed an SES Candidate Development Program (CDP) approved by OPM. I have addressed each of the MTQs in a separate document that is attached to my application, and I have responded to the specialized experience narrative statement.
 C. No, I did not address each MTQ, ECQ, or specialized experience statement with a narrative response in a separate document. I understand this will result in my ineligibility for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


10.
I understand that failure to provide a written statement ("See Resume" or other non-descriptive response is not sufficient) for each essay question could result in non-consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙