Position Title
Dental Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12828033-26-JLC Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 30, 2025 to Monday, November 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Dental Assistant position with our Lee County VA Healthcare System and the Bradenton Community Based Outpatient Clinic. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the qualification requirements. Please provide an answer to each question.

Full performance level for this position is GS-06.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS. The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


1.
Experience. Six months experience that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work, or provides familiarity with the work.

OR,

Education. Successful completion of a 1-year dental assistant program accredited by the American Dental Association's Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA).

OR,

Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.

Select one (1) statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Dental Assistant.
 I possess six (6) months of experience that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work, or provides familiarity with the work.
 I have successfully completed a 1-year dental assistant program accredited by the American Dental Association's Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA).
 I possess an equivalent combination of experience and education.
 I do not possess any of the qualifications listed above.


2.
Certification

Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75. Essentially, they must have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and be certified as radiographers in their field.

Select one (1) statement that best describes you possess a provision for certification of radiologic competence.
 I posses successful completion of the Dental Radiation Health and Safety Examination administered by the Dental Assisting National Board, Inc.
 I possess successful completion of the Principles and Practice of Dental Radiology and Radiographic Safety courses and examinations developed by the Assistant Under Secretary for Health for Dentistry.
 I possess successful completion of a radiation health and safety program or examination approved by a state board of dentistry or the Department of Defense (DoD).
 I do not possess any of the qualifications listed above.


Grandfathering Provision.  All persons employed in VHA in this occupation on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including certification (for positions above the full performance level) that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
Such employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journey level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
Such employees MUST meet the certification requirement before they can be promoted to those higher grade levels.
Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or licensure/certification/registration that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
If an employee who was retained under this provision leaves the occupation, the employee loses protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.


GRADE REQUIREMENT for Dental Assistant at GS-06. The following is used to determine the grade requirements for a Dental Assistant at the GS-06 grade level. Your responses are subject to verification and must be demonstrated in your resume. Please be as detailed as possible in your resume and ensure you demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position. No assumptions will be made


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Experience.  At least 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the core competencies described at that level. Knowledge, skills and abilities at the GS-05 grade level are:
Knowledge of anatomy and ability to evaluate diagnostic quality.
Broad knowledge of common medical emergencies and vital signs measurement.
Basic knowledge of instruments, materials and standardized dental procedures .
Ability to learn and utilize software programs used within VHA.
Basic communication skills to provide patient instructions according to established protocol.

Do you possess the one year of experience at the GS-05 grade level described above?
Note: Please ensure your resume/CV/application contains sufficient information to support the level of experience/education/training; otherwise, we will not be able to award you credit for the experience/education/training you claim.
 Yes
 No


4.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities.  In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following technical KSAs:
Ability to identify normal oral anatomy.
Advanced knowledge of instruments, materials, and standardized dental procedures used in all phases of restorative, surgical, endodontic and periodontal care and procedures.
Ability to monitor and perform basic interpretation of vital signs.
Ability to independently provide procedure-specific patient education and appropriate referral of patient concerns to treating dentist.
Ability to capture standard and special dental images of good diagnostic quality in traditional or digital formats.
Ability to perform maintenance on dental equipment used for routine and specialty dentistry.
Ability to enter and retrieve data utilizing electronic dental records.
Ability to perform dental assistant-appropriate laboratory procedures.

Do you possess the requirements for the GS-06 grade level described above?
Note: Please ensure your resume/CV/application contains sufficient information to support the level of experience/education/training; otherwise, we will not be able to award you credit for the experience/education/training you claim.
 Yes
 No


5.
Verification Statement - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your application not being considered for this position.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 B. No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


REMINDER Current, permanent federal employees please submit recent SF-50 from the past 12 months which clearly shows current, permanent federal eligibility. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
General adjustment/Cost of living Increase
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
Promotions SF-50's at the highest grade held within the past year
Cash Award, benefit changes or time off Awards 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted.
Please check your electronic official personnel folder (eOPF) for your most recent SF-50. HR will not contact you for more info or documents. You can attach more than 1 SF50. All current, permanent federal employees applicants must ensure that they have included one or more SF50's showing current, permanent employment status in the past 12 months.


RESUME REMINDER - You must provide a complete application package which includes:
Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title and Grade Level (for Federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Veteran's Preference does NOT apply to this occupation for FY 2026.  OCHCO Bulletin Subject: Annual Determination of Staffing Shortages, dated September 25, 2025. Although hybrid title 38 occupations follow title 5 Veterans' preference rules, as required by the Merit Systems Protection Board (Graves v. VA, 117 M.S.P.R. 697 (2012)), 38 U.S.C. § 7412 waives the requirement to apply Veterans' preference to external applicants for appointments made during the fiscal year to hybrid title 38 occupations among those reported to have the largest staffing shortages.
Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙