Position Title
MANAGEMENT AND PROGRAM ANALYST
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12767666-JRB Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 31, 2025 to Wednesday, August 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
5. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
6. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
7. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
8. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
9. The following question will be used to determine if you meet the certification requirement. An applicant must possess a FAI FAC-P/PM Senior-Level Program Management certification with DHS P/PM Specialization or the ability to obtain this certification within 18 months of placement. The position may also require DHS IT Specialization if assigned to an IT or Mixed Program.

Which of the following best describes your certification level?
 A. I currently possess a FAI FAC-P/PM Senior-Level Program Management certification with DHS P/PM Specialization.
 B. I have the ability to obtain this certification within 18 months of placement to the position.
 C. I do not currently possess a FAI FAC-P/PM Senior-Level Program Management certification with DHS P/PM Specialization or will not have the ability to obtain this certification within 18 months of placement to the position.
Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Analyzing and measuring the productivity of administrative and technical programs; Performing a variety of analytical studies and projects related to management improvement, productivity improvement, and long-range planning; Developing new or modified work methods, management processes, guidelines, and procedures for the conduct of administration support functions and program operations; Evaluating techniques to use concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of acquisition program operations.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
2. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Conducting analysis on program objectives and recommending actions or improvements to achieve outcomes; Providing technical assistance and support in matters relating to the application of acquisition planning, execution and oversight; Performing analysis on information provided by systems and providing recommendations; Reviewing submissions for substance, conformance with instructions, completeness and authorizations and maintaining all documents and their amendments; Providing recommendations for action that aligns with related acquisition management policies, procedures, directives, and best practices.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Have you devised solutions to issues, including addressing the consequences of proposed changes?

 A. YES
 B. NO
4. Have you planned or organized teams or task forces to address new management programs or initiatives?

 A. YES
 B. NO
5. Have you analyzed financial or statistical information for the purpose of developing cost-benefit or economic evaluation of current and projected programs?

 A. YES
 B. NO
6. Have you reviewed proposed expenditures and budget requests?

 A. YES
 B. NO
7. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management in order to obtain and provide information.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have given presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings, or acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 C. I have discussed and explained technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience, to include internal and external managers.
8. Select the choice which best describes how you have interacted with others, including visitors, various levels of employees, and management.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been an individual contributor or facilitator on several teams which met project goals and deadlines, through helping to reach consensus on problems/issues which would arise.
 C. I have interacted with people from varied backgrounds, whereby I have negotiated, mediated or led the group to reach consensus.
 D. I have represented the organization at meetings, conferences, etc.
9. Have you written final documents covering complex information, such as policies, training manuals/materials, management reports, or conference materials?

 A. YES
 B. NO
10. Have you presented project status briefings, management reviews, or management reports to decision makers?

 A. YES
 B. NO
11. Have you conducted management programs, management reviews, audits, or studies?

 A. YES
 B. NO
12. Have you prepared budget and program resource requests and decisions?

 A. YES
 B. NO
13. Indicate the extent to which you have planned, developed, and conducted program evaluations, or analyses for a variety of purposes.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have planned and developed management surveys, evaluations, or analyses.
 C. I have set goals and priorities for the work of others and coordinated activities and timelines to ensure that project goals and deadlines were met.
14. Select the statement that best describes your experience identifying and providing written recommendations of non-traditional solutions and strategies to solve problems.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have limited experience, and I am generally familiar with the performance of this task. I would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it well without supervision.
 C. I have experience in the performance of this task. I can perform this task satisfactorily but could benefit from additional instruction, guidance, or experience to perform the task more effectively.
 D. I have experience and perform this task regularly. I can perform this task independently and effectively.
 E. I have experience and have clearly demonstrated my capability in the performance of this task. I am considered an expert in and/or have received official recognition for performing this task.
15. Indicate your level of experience analyzing and developing workforce plans and analysis that included workforce trends in order to forecast needs for the future workforce based on the collection and analysis of data from a variety of sources.

 A. I no experience performing this task.
 B. I have limited experience analyzing data from a variety of sources in order to compile reports with respect to workforce planning.
 C. I have regularly used a variety of sources to collect and analyze data in order to identify workforce trends and forecast future needs of an organization.
 D. I have experience analyzing and forecasting future needs of an organization based on the collection and analysis of data from a variety of sources.
 E. I have experience analyzing and forecasting future needs of an organization based on the collection and analysis of data from a variety of sources. I have used this data to present detailed reports to management regarding future workforce trends.
16. Human capital/workforce planning analysts are often asked to help their organizations restructure as well as change policy and behavior. Select the statement that best describes your experience in serving as an agent of change selling new ideas that involve major organizational changes.

 A. I no experience performing this task.
 B. I have assisted in changing policy and selling new ideas that involve changes to the organization.
 C. I have changed policy and behavior by working with management to sell new ideas that involve changes to the organization.
 D. I am considered an expert in selling new ideas that involve major organizational changes, and/or have received official recognition for performing this task.
17. Human capital/workforce planning analysts often asked to partner with managers in other organizations to help plan for and address human capital issues related to long-term direction and component goals. Select the statement that best describes your ability to serve as a strategic partner to top agency management officials and to provide consultation and support based upon program requirements, agency strategic goals and internal customer business needs.

 A. I no experience performing this task.
 B. I have experience in the performance of this task. I can perform this task satisfactorily but could benefit from additional instruction, guidance, or experience to perform the task more effectively.
 C. I have experience and perform this task regularly. I can perform this task independently and effectively.
 D. I have experience and have clearly demonstrated my capability in the performance of this task. I am considered an expert in and/or have received official recognition for performing this task.
18. Select the statement that best describes your ability to diagnose a problem or decision, determine goals or outcomes, evaluate alternatives, and identify the best choice(s).

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have limited experience, and I am generally familiar with the performance of this task. I would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it well without supervision.
 C. I have experience in the performance of this task. I can perform this task satisfactorily but could benefit from additional instruction, guidance, or experience to perform the task more effectively.
 D. I have experience and perform this task regularly. I can perform this task independently and effectively.
 E. I have experience and have clearly demonstrated my capability in the performance of this task. I am considered an expert in and/or have received official recognition for performing this task.
19. Select the statement the best describes your skill in anticipating customer needs and providing support based on knowledge of customers' operations and potential solutions.

 A. I no experience performing this task.
 B. I have experience in the performance of this task. I can perform this task satisfactorily but could benefit from additional instruction, guidance, or experience to perform the task more effectively.
 C. I have experience and perform this task regularly. I can perform this task independently and effectively.
 D. I have experience and have clearly demonstrated my capability in the performance of this task. I am considered an expert in and/or have received official recognition for performing this task.
20. Indicate your level of experience developing high impact presentations materials and delivering briefing to senior level officials.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have presented materials and briefing to senior level officials.
 C. I have developed high impact presentations materials and have delivered briefings to senior level officials.
 D. I have developed high impact presentations materials and have delivered briefings to senior level officials and outside agencies.
21. Select the statement that best describes your ability to maintain liaison and deal effectively with high-level management officials at all organizational levels within the government and private sector.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have experience in establishing and maintaining liaison with officials within the agency, to include making informal presentations on existing or new policies to counterparts and lower level managers, and planning coordinated responses for my unit.
 C. I have considerable experience in initiating, maintaining and expanding liaison with persons at my peer level and, to a lesser degree, with high-level officials, to include those in other agencies and non-governmental interest groups.
 D. I have experience in maintaining and/or expanding liaison with a broad and extensive range of persons and/or groups in and out of the government, to include state and local agencies, Congressional staffs, and public interest or advocacy groups.
 E. I have experience in establishing and maintaining liaison with executive and senior-level management officials from other countries, federal, state and local governments, non-government officials (private industry, and community service organizations) to create mutually advantageous official relations in agency program matters of interest.
22. Indicate the extent of your experience in using word processing and spreadsheet software (for example, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, WordPerfect).

 A. I have used word processing and spreadsheet software to access and retrieve data, files, or other information to respond to routine inquiries or to disseminate general information.
 B. I have used word processing and spreadsheet software to create, print, and send data, files, or other information in order to compile information, maintain logs, or prepare basic reports.
 C. I have used word processing and spreadsheet software to create, edit, and manipulate data in order to perform statistical analyses, write comprehensive reports, or design new procedures.
 D. I have used word processing and spreadsheet software to create, edit, and manipulate data in order to perform statistical analyses, write comprehensive reports, or design new procedures using advanced techniques such as pivot tables, logical IFs, calculated fields, nested formulas, and conditional formatting.
23. Indicate the extent of your experience in using business intelligence or database software tools to collect data on assigned staffing levels, hiring and attrition for an organization.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have used business intelligence software to collect data on assigned staffing levels.
 C. I have worked as a member of a team responsible for designing business intelligence software reports to provide information on assigned staffing levels, hiring and attrition for an organization.
 D. I have independently designed business intelligence software reports to provide information on assigned staffing levels, hiring and attrition for an organization.
 E. I have independently designed business intelligence software reports to provide information on assigned staffing levels, hiring and attrition for an organization, taught others how to use these tools, and used the results to prepare summary reports for senior leaders in an organization.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected