Position Title
Management and Program Analyst (Fire) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
FADHA-25-12765258-LG Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 to Wednesday, August 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
survey questions
1. My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I will provide copies of required documents by the closing date of this announcement. These documents establish my eligibility and qualifications for this position. Examples: SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action (non-award); DD-214 for VEOA consideration; transcripts if applicable.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. My resume contains hours worked per week for each position and/or season of experience held. I understand that failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Only the first two pages of the resume will be used to determine eligibility/qualifications. The first two pages of my resume contains the required information to qualify for the position; I understand that any additional information will not be reviewed.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.
1. I qualify for the GS-11 level because:

 A. I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-9 in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience qualifying for this position.
 B. I have 3 years of graduate education leading to a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree in a field related to this occupation. I will provide a copy of my college transcript(s).
 C. I have a combination of the specialized experience and graduate education described above. I will provide a copy of my college transcript(s).
 D. I do not meet any of the responses above.
2. I qualify for the GS-12 level because I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-11 in the federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience qualifying for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Indicate the statement that best describes your skill in fire management planning.

 A. I have experience at the national level in establishing agency and interagency fire management planning policies through the preparation of directives, handbooks and manuals.
 B. I have experience at the regional or state level in establishing agency and interagency fire management planning policies through the preparation of directives, handbooks and manuals.
 C. I have served as the team leader or principal author of local unit fire management plans.
 D. I have been part of an interdisciplinary team assigned to prepare local unit fire management plans.
 E. None of the above.
4. Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and understanding of incident business management.

 A. Working at a state/regional level, I provide guidance on Interagency Incident Business policy to field level employees on emergency hiring authorities, property management, and cost accounting and reporting.
 B. Working at a field level, I have some experience with emergency hiring authorities, property management, and cost accounting and reporting.
 C. I have knowledge of emergency hiring authorities, property management, and cost accounting and reporting.
 D. I have no knowledge of emergency hiring authorities, property management, or cost accounting and reporting.
5. Do you have either prior wildland fireline experience or wildland fire business experience?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I have specialized experience in the following fire management positions:

 A. Fire Program Management
 B. Wildland Fire Operations Specialist
 C. Prescribed Fire and Fuels Specialist
 D. Prevention and Education Specialist
 E. Initial Attack Lead Dispatcher/Assistant Center Manager
 F. Experience at the Unit Leader Level on a Type 1 or Type 2 incident
 G. None of the above
7. Indicate the statement that best describes your experience working with an organization`s budget.

 A. I provide annual budget requirements for an organizational program, where I justify expenditures and track dollars spent for a biannual or annual period and make adjustments as necessary.
 B. I provide annual budget requirements for an organizational program, where I track expenditures throughout the year and provide reports.
 C. I provide input to an organizational program where I request funds at the time expenditures are made.
 D. I have little input into the budget process.
 E. I have no experience with the budget process.
8. Select the statement that best describes your experience in reconciling office or program level financial/budget records to ensure that the labor and operational plans and expenses are consistent with agency/corporate information systems.

 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
9. Select the following automated accounting systems that you have used as part of a job:

 A. Federal Collections and Billing System (CBS)
 B. Financial and Business Management System (FBMS)
 C. Federal Agency Accounting System
 D. A large Business Accounting System
 E. A Small Business Accounting System
 F. None of the above
10. Select the statement that best describes your experience in conducting program reviews or assessments.

 A. I develop a series of annual multiyear or similar type of long-range work plans and schedules that require me to work with high-level program officials in setting overall goals and objectives for a national program.
 B. I develop a series of annual, multiyear or similar types of long-range work plans and schedules that require me to work with high-level program officials in setting overall goals and objectives for a regional, multi-state or equivalent program.
 C. I develop a series of annual, multiyear or similar types of long-range work plans and schedules that require me to work with high-level program officials in setting overall goals and objectives for a statewide or equivalent program.
 D. I develop a series of annual, multiyear or similar types of long-range work plans and schedules that require me to work with higher level program officials in setting overall goals and objectives for a field office or equivalent staff.
 E. I plan and schedule production-oriented work that requires me to adjust staffing levels or work procedures to accommodate changes, justify the purchase of new equipment, oversee development of technical data and statistics and decide methodologies for achieving work goals and objectives.
 F. I am the leader of a team working on a specific project requiring me to assess progress of work assignments for meeting goals and objectives
 G. None of the above.
11. Indicate the statement that best describes your ability to work effectively in an interagency environment.

 A. I work with interagency partners on a national level developing interagency policies and/or national interagency initiatives and/or interagency guidelines.
 B. I work with interagency partners at a state/regional level working on interagency initiatives or guidelines or programs or as part of an interagency staff.
 C. I work with interagency partners on interagency initiatives or programs or projects or as part of a local interagency staff.
 D. I have never worked in an interagency environment.
12. Select all the statements below that best describe your ability to communicate financial matters to operational and program personnel.

 A. I coordinate new procedures and provide advice on a wide variety of complex financial matters to all levels of managers and disciplines throughout a bureau or agency. This may involve preparing and presenting oral briefings to groups of managers or employees, or written fact sheets, instructional memorandum or information bulletins.
 B. I explain process and procedures to managers and staff throughout a large organization either informally in small groups, or one-on-one situations.
 C. I gather financial data, and explain work processes and data availability to auditors and management as required.
 D. I prepare and may assist in preparing oral or written presentations to management.
 E. I communicate information regarding somewhat routine financial matters to managers and other personnel within an organization.
 F. I prepare and conduct presentations on financial matters to my peers and other personnel internal to my immediate organization.
 G. I write procedures to clarify financial guidance or the impact of new guidance.
 H. I prepare reports and other financial documentation for supervisory review.
 I. None of the above
13. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected