Position Title
Electronic Industrial Controls Worker (120 Day Register)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAWpnSpt-26-12815436-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 14, 2025 to Sunday, February 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
11
12


2.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


3.
Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.


4.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


6.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Assessment 1
1.
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position. YOU CAN ONLY SELECT ONE RESPONSE. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS QUESTION WILL RESULT IN YOU BEING RATED INELIGIBLE.
 For WG-08: I independently perform the more complex duties, such as assisting in the maintenance of electrical/electronic components. Taking direction from higher-grade mechanic while overhauling, installing, maintaining and repairing a variety of electronically/electrically controlled industrial equipment. Following specific directions while troubleshooting various electronic/electrical systems. Working as a team member in the installation, repair, and maintenance of complete computer numerical control, or similar systems by performingmore simple and routine tasks, such as identifying, checking three phase motor systems, programmable logic controllers, AC variable frequency drives, DC SCR drives and connecting power and signal cables, replacing defective parts and assemblies which have been identified by higher grade mechanics, or monitoring systems operation by following operating testing procedures for the system and associated test equipment, and identifying and reporting improper operation indications.
 For WG-08: I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled on my own initiative and receive help from my supervisor on more complex duties, such as assisting in the maintenance of electrical/electronic components. Taking direction from higher-grade mechanic while overhauling, installing, maintaining and repairing a variety of electronically/electrically controlled industrial equipment. Following specific directions while troubleshooting various electronic/electrical systems. Working as a team member in the installation, repair, and maintenance of complete computer numerical control, or similar systems by performing more simple and routine tasks, such as identifying, checking three phase motor systems, programmable logic controllers, AC variable frequency drives, DC SCR drives and connecting power and signal cables, replacing defective parts and assemblies which have been identified by higher grade mechanics, or monitoring systems operation by following operating testing procedures for the system and associated test equipment, and identifying and reporting improper operation indications.
 For WG-08: I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled but under close supervision, such as assisting in the maintenance of electrical/electronic components. Taking direction from higher-grade mechanic while overhauling, installing, maintaining and repairing a variety of electronically/electrically controlled industrial equipment. Following specific directions while troubleshooting various electronic/electrical systems. Working as a team member in the installation, repair, and maintenance of complete computer numerical control, or similar systems by performing more simple and routine tasks, such as identifying, checking three phase motor systems, programmable logic controllers, AC variable frequency drives, DC SCR drives and connecting power and signal cables, replacing defective parts and assemblies which have been identified by higher grade mechanics, or monitoring systems operation by following operating testing procedures for the system and associated test equipment, and identifying and reporting improper operation indications.
 For WG-11: I independently perform the more complex duties, such as preliminary inspection, overhaul/repair, retrofitting, modification and complete final operational testing and calibration of Industrial Plant Equipment (IPE) items. Uses computer numerical control logic, closed loop servo systems, analog and digital DC SCR Drives, analog and digital AC Variable Frequency Drives, programmable logic controllers, discrete 1/0 devices, and computer generated electrical prints utilizing a CAD system. Uses, repairs and inspects electronic and position measuring equipment such as the laser interferometer, optical systems, position readouts and their associated components and circuits. Tests, repairs and troubleshoots electronic AC and DC SCR type drive systems, director servo amplifiers, checks critical voltages and switching devices to assure proper operation.
 For WG-11: I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled on my own initiative and receive help from my supervisor on more complex duties, such as preliminary inspection, overhaul/repair, retrofitting, modification and complete final operational testing and calibration of Industrial Plant Equipment (IPE) items. Uses computer numerical control logic, closed loop servo systems, analog and digital DC SCR Drives, analog and digital AC Variable Frequency Drives, programmable logic controllers, discrete 1/0 devices, and computer generated electrical prints utilizing a CAD system. Uses, repairs and inspects electronic and position measuring equipment such as the laser interferometer, optical systems, position readouts and their associated components and circuits. Tests, repairs and troubleshoots electronic AC and DC SCR type drive systems, director servo amplifiers, checks critical voltages and switching devices to assure proper operation.
 For WG-11: I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled but under close supervision, such as preliminary inspection, overhaul/repair, retrofitting, modification and complete final operational testing and calibration of Industrial Plant Equipment (IPE) items. Uses computer numerical control logic, closed loop servo systems, analog and digital DC SCR Drives, analog and digital AC Variable Frequency Drives, programmable logic controllers, discrete 1/0 devices, and computer generated electrical prints utilizing a CAD system. Uses, repairs and inspects electronic and position measuring equipment such as the laser interferometer, optical systems, position readoutsand their associated components and circuits. Tests, repairs and troubleshoots electronic AC and DC SCR type drive systems, director servo amplifiers, checks critical voltages and switching devices to assure proper operation.
 For WG-12: I independently perform the more complex duties, such as performing preliminary inspection of items in the electrical repair field. Demonstrates expert skill in diagnosing malfunctions by applying a high degree of knowledge of diverse occupational areas which include electronic, electrical, pneumatic, and mechanical, repair/rebuild instrumentation and hydraulic trades. Requires a high degree of understanding of computer numerical control logic, closed loop servo systems, analog and digital DC SCR Drives, analog and digital ACVariable Frequency Drives, programmable logic controllers, discrete I/0 devices, and computer generated electrical prints utilizing a CAD systems. Tests overall CNC system operation by using data input in all modes to insure proper machine response and accuracy. Uses laser equipment to perform and plot actual linear displacement measurements and angular errors in straightness, square-ness and parallelism analysis.
 For WG-12: I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled on my own initiative and receive help from my supervisor on more complex duties, Demonstrates expert skill in diagnosing malfunctions by applying a high degree of knowledge of diverse occupational areas which include electronic, electrical, pneumatic, and mechanical, repair/rebuild instrumentation and hydraulic trades. Requires a high degree of understanding of computer numerical control logic, closed loop servo systems, analog and digital DC SCR Drives, analog anddigital AC Variable Frequency· Drives, programmable logic controllers, discrete I/0 devices, and computer generated electrical prints utilizing a CAD systems. Tests overall CNC system operation by using data input in all modes to insure proper machine response and accuracy. Uses laser equipment to perform and plot actual linear displacement measurements and angular errors in straightness, square-ness and parallelism analysis.
 For WG-12: I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled but under close supervision, such as Diagnosing malfunctions by applying a high degree of knowledge of diverse occupational areas which include electronic, electrical, pneumatic, and mechanical, repair/rebuild instrumentation and hydraulic trades. Familiar with computer numerical control logic, closed loop servo systems, analog and digital DC SCR Drives, analog and digital AC Variable Frequency· Drives, programmable logic controllers, discrete I/0 devices, and computer generated electrical prints utilizing a CAD systems. Has assisted with laser equipment to perform and plot actual linear displacement measurements and angular errors in straightness, square-ness and parallelism analysis.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙