Position Title
Criminal Investigator (Special Agent)
Agency
Office of the Inspector General for Tax Administration
Announcement Number
25-TIGTA-12792189-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Tuesday, September 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
7.

Incumbents selected for Criminal Investigator positions are covered under special law enforcement provisions. This requires that applicants not exceed the maximum age for entry. The date immediately preceding an applicants 37th birthday is the final date for selection. The age restriction does not apply if you served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position covered by special civil service retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement.

If you are not subject to the age restriction because you have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above, you must submit an SF 50 (or equivalent documentation) showing service in a covered civilian law enforcement. OR If you are not subject to the age restriction because you are a preference eligible veteran, you must submit appropriate veterans documentation to establish that you are eligible for veteran's preference in order to waive the age requirements for this position.

Will you have reached your 37th birthday by the closing date of this announcement?

 A. I will NOT have reached my 37th birthday by the close of this announcement.
 B. I am not subject to the age restriction because I served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above.
 C. I am a preference eligible veteran and am not subject to the requirements above.
 D. I will be 37 or older by the close date of this announcement. I am not a preference eligible veteran and have not previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement (FLEO) position.
8.

Medical Requirements: The selectee must pass a pre-appointment physical examination and meet the physical requirements for this position as required by this agency. The duties of this position require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, hip, and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must be sufficiently intact and functioning in order that applicants may perform the duties satisfactorily. Sufficiently good vision and hearing are required to perform the duties satisfactorily. Because the duties of this position are exacting, responsible, and sometimes performed under trying conditions, the selectee must possess emotional and mental stability. Any physical condition that would cause the selectee to be a hazard to himself/herself, or others is disqualifying.

Do you meet the physical requirements as described above?

 A. Yes, I possess the requirements listed above.
 B. I do not possess the requirements listed above.
Assessment 1
Specialized experience: For the GS-13, You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as:

- Participating in the coordination of multi-agent cases or investigations that involve multiple subjects; AND
- Performing criminal or administrative investigations; AND
- Providing technical assistance, training, and consultation for criminal investigations, inspections and techniques, or coordinating criminal investigations and strategies; AND
- Utilizing various investigative techniques to establish interrelationships of facts or evidence; AND
- Investigating sensitive, controversial subjects or cases involving jurisdictional problems.
1. Do you have one year of experience at the GS-12 level as described above?
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-12 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
 Specialized experience: For the GS-12, You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as:

- Performing criminal or administrative investigations; AND
- Utilizing various investigative techniques to establish interrelationships of facts or evidence; AND
- Developing evidence by interviews, documentary searches, surveillance, etc.; AND
- Investigating sensitive subjects or cases involving jurisdictional problems.
2. Do you have one year of experience at the GS-11 level as described above?
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-11 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
3. Are you willing and able to achieve and maintain qualification/certification with an agency-approved firearm?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you have knowledge of the mission and goals associated with an Office of Inspector General (OIG)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Identify the types of investigations that you have conducted.
 A. I have not conducted investigations.
 B. Investigations related to employee misconduct.
 C. Investigations related to threats to employees.
 D. Investigations related to fraud in a Federal government program.
 E. Investigations related to internal affairs matters.
 F. Investigations related to cyber fraud.
 G. Investigations related to stolen property or funds.
 H. Investigations related to tax compliance matters.
6. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience. (limit 250 characters)
7. Do you have working experience with the confidentiality provisions contained in section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience. (limit 250 characters)
9. Select the law enforcement activities below with which you have experience
 A. Making arrests resulting from Federal criminal investigations.
 B. Making arrests resulting from state and/or local investigations.
 C. Conducting Physical Surveillance.
 D. Participating in the execution of search warrants.
 E. Seizing and storing evidence.
 F. Presenting investigative results to the U.S. Attorneys Office.
 G. Presenting investigative results to a state or local prosecutor.
 H. None of the above.
10. Select the choice that best describes your experience drafting and serving subpoenas.
 A. I have drafted and served Inspector General and Grand Jury subpoenas.
 B. I have drafted and served Grand Jury subpoenas.
 C. I have drafted and served Inspector General subpoenas.
 D. I have no experience drafting and serving subpoenas.
11. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience. (limit 250 characters)
12. Select the response that best describes your experience conducting law enforcement interviews of complainants, victims, witnesses, and/or subjects:
 A. I have no experience or training conducting interviews.
 B. I have training in conducting interviews.
 C. I have conducted interviews of complainants, witnesses, and/or subjects.
 D. I have conducted interviews of complainants, witnesses, and/or subjects during the course of Federal criminal investigations.
 E. I have trained others as a lead to conduct interviews of complainants, witnesses, and/or subjects during the course of Federal criminal investigations.
13. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience. (limit 250 characters)
14. Select the response that best describes your experience with preparing written briefings or reports:
 A. I have no experience preparing briefings or reports.
 B. I have prepared briefings or reports in a training environment.
 C. I have prepared briefings or reports in a work environment.
 D. As a normal course of my duties, I prepare law enforcement reports, to include Memoranda of Interviews or Activity and Reports of Investigation.
15. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience (limit 250 characters)
16. Indicate all of the following types of interpersonal communication duties you have performed as a regular part of your job.
 A. Briefed management/customers on policy changes.
 B. Defended recommendations on controversial issues.
 C. Facilitated coordination of efforts between organizational entities.
 D. Acted as technical representative.
 E. Served on panels, committees, or task forces on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 F. Regularly consulted by others on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 G. None of the above.
17. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience. (limit 250 characters)
18. Which of the following best describes your experience verbally communicating with higher level managers and external stakeholders?
 A. I have prepared and presented investigative findings to higher level managers and Assistant United States Attorneys.
 B. I have presented investigative status and other investigative matters to senior agency officials.
 C. I have assisted in providing operational briefings to other members of a task force or raid team.
 D. None of the above.
19. Select all systems you have used to conduct investigations.
 A. FinCEN
 B. NCIC/NLETS/TECS
 C. IC3
 D. Consumer Sentinel
 E. PACER
 F. SPLUNK
 G. CLEAR/Accurint
 H. None of the above
20. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience. (limit 250 characters)
21. Select the choice that best describes the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, prepared databases, determined the accuracy of the data, defined problems based on the data, and identified solutions.
 A. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 B. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 C. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and presented those results to a prosecuting authority.
 D. None of the above.
22. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience. (limit 250 characters)
23. Select the choice that best describes your experience working on projects
 A. While working on projects, I am self-motivated and resourceful. I frequently resolve problems with minimal guidance. In a group setting, I facilitate collaborative discussions, volunteer for assignments, ensure inclusiveness of varying perspectives, and develop innovative ideas to solve the problem.
 B. While working on projects, I take the initiative to resolve most problems with minimal guidance. I occasionally require additional guidance. In group settings, I participate and routinely contribute to discussions. The group leader assigns tasks that I complete timely without supervision.
 C. While working on projects, I am assigned tasks to complete under guidance of more experienced personnel. In group settings, I participate in discussions and sometimes contribute ideas. The group leader assigns me tasks to be completed under the supervision of others.
 D. None of the above.
24. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience. (limit 250 characters)
25. Select the choice that best describes your experience as a team leader coordinating the work of other team members based on priorities, requirements of the task, and capabilities of the members.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some periodic experience in assigning work as a team leader or an acting supervisor.
 C. I have had experience managing large program/project in assigning work to others and adjusting those assignments based on changing priorities and demonstrated skills of program/project members.
 D. I have experience as a supervisor in assigning program and project responsibilities to subordinate employees.
26. Choose the statement that best describes your experience in providing employee training.
 A. I have no experience in providing employee training.
 B. I have participated in providing informal on-the-job training to peers.
 C. I have given formal training presentations on one or more law enforcement operational topics as the subject matter expert in those areas.
 D. In addition to providing informal on-the-job training to peers and/or subordinates, I have been responsible for identifying training needs, recommending different types of training, and personally giving formal training presentations on a wide variety of law enforcement topics
27. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience. (limit 250 characters)
28. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding No to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected