Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Fitness)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12812053 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 6, 2025 to Monday, October 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Recreation Assistant Fitness position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
This position is subject to the possibility of workdays on weekends and holidays and evenings, as well as rotating shifts, often consisting of other than normal duty hours. The staff member may be recalled to duty and/or required to work overtime, including on an emergency basis.

 Yes I am available to work all of the above requirements
 Yes I am available to work some of the above requirements
 No I am not available to work any of the above requirements


2.
Are you 18 years of age or older?
 Yes I am 18 years of age or older
 No I am younger than 18 years of age


3.
Describe your years of experience with basic math skills (cash handling and inventory)

 Three plus years of documented basic math skills (cash handling and inventory)
 Two to Three years of documented basic math skills (cash handling and inventory)
 One to Two years of documented basic math skills (cash handling and inventory)
 Less than one year of documented basic math skills (cash handling and inventory)
 No documented basic math skills (cash handling and inventory)


4.
Describe your experience dealing in customer service; providing information and services to the patrons
 Three plus years of documented customer service
 Two to Three years of documented customer service
 One to Two years of documented customer service
 Less than one year of documented customer service
 No documented customer service


5.
How many years of experience do you have working in recreational fitness, sports or aquatic programs?
 Three plus years of working in a DoD athletic program
 Three plus years of working in a Civilian sector athletic program
 Two to Three years of working in a DoD athletic program
 Two to Three years of working in a Civilian sector athletic program
 One to Two years of working in either a DoD or Civilian athletic program
 Less than one year of working in either a DoD or Civilian athletic program
 No documented experience in either a DoD or Civilian athletic program


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙