Position Title
Meteorologist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
R2-25-12789743-WA-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 11, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. 30 Percent or More Disabled Veterans: 

To claim eligibility as a 30% or more disabled veteran, please confirm that you are a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and:
You have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
You are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include: 
A copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service; AND
A copy of your disability letter which includes the combined service connected disability percentage rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service; AND
The Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, SF-15.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. 

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the 30% disabled veterans hiring authority?


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Appointment of Certain Military Spouses (5 CFR 315.612): 

To claim Military Spouse eligibility under 5 CFR 315.612, please confirm you wish to be considered under this authority and you are one of the following: 

(1)  The spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training
-OR-
(2) The spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty
-OR-
(3) The un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which includes:

All military spouses must submit documentation verifying marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage)
AND
If you are married to an active-duty service member, documentation verifying active-duty status
OR
If you are a spouse of a 100% disabled service member, documentation showing the member of the armed forces retired, or was released or discharged from active duty, with a disability rating of 100 percent.
OR

If you are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member killed while on active duty, documentation showing the member was released or discharged from active duty due to his or her death while on active duty; documentation verifying the member of the armed forces was killed while serving on active duty; documentation verifying the widow or widower's marriage to the member of the armed forces (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and a statement certifying that the individual seeking to use the authority is the un-remarried widow or widower of the service member.

For more information please see OPM's Questions and Answers for Noncompetitive Appointment of Certain Military Spouses. 

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Military Spouse?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Career Transition Assistance Plan: 

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Competitive - Current Permanent Department of the Interior (or any of its Bureaus) Employee: 

Please select YES to this eligibility if you meet the criteria below:

Are you an employee of the Department of Interior or any of its bureaus who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment (tenure 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50) in the competitive service (position occupied is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50) and has never permanently held the full performance level of the position being announced?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your current, permanent, competitive status with the Department of Interior or any of its bureaus. Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50); AND,
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50).

Do you wish to be considered as a Competitive, Current, Permanent DOI (or any of its Bureaus) Employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Competitive Promotion/Reassignment/Transfer/Reinstatement

Please select YES to this eligibility if you are ANY of the options below:

Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with a career or career-conditional appointment (Tenure 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50) who has never held the full performance level of the position being announced on a permanent basis. OR

Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment, or did you obtain career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) AND you never held the full performance level of the position being announced on a permanent basis.  

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2 in block 24) AND status in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34).

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Competitive Reinstatement/Reassignment/Transfer/Promotion?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

Are you a current or former federal employee considered displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.   

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency posting this job announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency (U.S. Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) and are serving or served under a time-limited competitive service appointment (Term, Temporary)?  You may be eligible to compete under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act, P.L. 114-47.

Current land management agency appointees must have initially been hired under competitive procedures for a time-limited appointment; must have served under one or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees must have initially been hired under competitive procedures for a time-limited appointment; must have served under one or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service; must have been separated (with respect to their most recent separation) for reasons other than misconduct or performance, and must apply for a position covered by these provisions within two years of their most recent date of separation.

You must provide documentation showing all required periods of service which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations or references from supervisors (if employed for periods of time too short to require an appraisal) for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.

For more information about Land Management Workforce Eligibility:  USAJOBS Help Center - Land management

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Non-Competitive Reassignment/Transfer/Re-Promotion/Reinstatement

Are you a Current Federal employee serving on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service who currently holds or has held, on a permanent basis, a position at the same or higher full performance level (FPL) than the FPL of this position?
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
-OR-

Are you a Former Federal employee who served on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service and held, on a permanent basis, a position at the same or higher full performance level (FPL) than the FPL of this position?  NOTE:  Former employees who obtained career tenure are reinstatement eligible indefinitely; former employees who did not obtain career tenure are reinstatement eligible for 3 years from the date of separation; and former employees with veterans' preference who served on a career or career-conditional appointment are reinstatement eligible indefinitely regardless of career tenure. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 must reflect:
career status (Tenure 1) or career-conditional status (Tenure 2 - if you have career-conditional status you must have separated within the last three years OR have veteran's preference).
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Non-competitive Reinstatement/Reassignment/Transfer/Re-Promotion?
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Non-Competitive - Current, Permanent Employee of the U.S. Department of the Interior (or any of its Bureaus):

Please select YES to this Eligibility if you meet the criteria below:

Are you an employee of the Department of the Interior or any of its bureaus who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service who holds or has previously held a permanent (non-temporary) position at the same or higher full performance level as the position being announced?

To verify your eligibility, you MUST submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status with the U.S. Department of the Interior or any of its bureaus.

Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1)

Do you wish to be considered as a non-competitive current, permanent DOI (or any of its bureaus) employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. OPM Interchange Agreement and Special Hiring Authorities Do you meet any of the non-competitive eligibilities listed below?
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management? 
Are you an Employee under Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated by U.S. Office of Personnel Management; or another authority which grants non-competitive eligibility (Postal Career Service Employee; Postal Rate Commission Employee; Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee)?
Certain Overseas Family Members (A family member of a federal employee, or uniformed service member, who has completed 52 weeks of service in a federal position overseas.)
Peace Corps/VISTA Eligible 
A Foreign Service Employee 
DOI or FWS Authorities not regulated by OPM (e.g. Directorate Fellowship Program, Resource Assistants)
Do you wish to be considered under the OPM Interchange Agreement OR one of the identified special hiring authorities?

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Individuals with Disabilities (Schedule A)

To claim eligibility under the Schedule A hiring authority for Individuals with Disabilities, please confirm you have a qualifying severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit appropriate medical documentation (such as a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist) specifying that you are eligible to apply using the Schedule A hiring authority.  

For more information on hiring Individuals with Disabilities, review the resources in the USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

Are you eligible under the Schedule A, Individuals with Disabilities hiring authority?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Please select YES to this eligibility if you are a Public Land Corps (PLC) certificate holder who meets all the requirements below for non-competitive eligibility:
Served as a qualified youth, ages 16 to 30 years inclusive, or a veteran age 35 or younger, on an appropriate conservation project completing a minimum of 640 hours of satisfactory service that included at least 120 hours on a PLC project as defined in 16 USC 1723(d); and 
Completed the PLC service within the last two (2) years, and 
Possess a copy of the "Certificate of Eligibility for Non-Competitive Hiring Status (PLC)" signed by a bureau PLC Coordinator. 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide:  a copy of your "Certificate of Eligibility for Non-Competitive Hiring Status (PLC)".  
Appointment under this hiring authority must be effective PRIOR to the 2-year eligibility expiration date.

 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA)

Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
• served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
• are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service, and/or other documentation which shows you are entitled to veterans' preference.

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the VEOA?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Veterans Recruitment Authority (VRA)

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
• recently separated (within the past 3 years); OR
• are a disabled veteran; OR
• served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition; OR,
• received an Armed Forces Service Medal?

NOTE:  Eligible veterans may be appointed without competition to positions at any grade level through General Schedule (GS) 11 or equivalent. (The promotion potential of the position is not a factor.) 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, you must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the Veterans Recruitment Authority? 


 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Basic Education Requirements for Meteorology
Choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.
1. Select the response below that most accurately describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirement for the position of Meteorology at the GS-13 grade level

 A. I possess a degree in: Meteorology, Atmospheric Science, or other Natural Science Major that included: 1. At least 24 SH (36 QH) in meteorology/atmospheric science including a minimum of: a. 6 SH of atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics;* b. 6 SH of analysis and prediction of weather systems; c. 3 SH of physical meteorology; and d. 2 SH of remote sensing of the atmosphere and/or instrumentation. 2. 6 SH of physics, with at least one course that includes laboratory sessions.* 3. 3 SH of ordinary differential equations.* 4. At least nine semester hours of course work appropriate for a physical science major in any combination of three or more of the following: physical hydrology, statistics, chemistry, physical oceanography, physical climatology, radiative transfer, aeronomy, advanced thermodynamics, advanced electricity and magnetism, light and optics, and computer science. *There is a prerequisite or corequisite of calculus for course work in atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics, physics, and differential equations. Calculus courses must be appropriate for a physical science major.
 B. I possess a combination of education and experience: course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. I do not meet the criteria in "A" or "B" above.
Minimum Qualifications GS-13.
Choose the response that best describes your experience. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.
2. Select the response below that most accurately describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirement for the position of Meteorology at the GS-13 grade level.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 in the Federal service. Specialized experience must include proficient in leading cross-functional teams in multi-agency environments in the development of fire weather products and smoke dispersion services; coordinating the implementation of monitoring systems to create actionable baseline data for optimizing fire and predictive service programs and making regulatory determinations and managing all aspects of weather data collection networks.
 B. I do not possess the above experience.
Skill in writing technical and management reports and directives sufficient to communicate program direction, evaluation criteria, and policies.
3. Please select all statements that reflect your experience in providing services related to Program Management of Fire Meteorology and Predictive Services.

 A. I extract, analyze and disseminate to a wide range of audiences, weather and fuels information in order to provide decision support to wildland fire personnel through fire potential forecasts and outlooks.
 B. I use National Fire Danger Rating System, Weather Information Management System, and various weather data sources for interpolation of current fire conditions.
 C. I deliver technically accurate responses to inquiries from regions and programs concerning fire weather predictive services including likelihood of severe weather that could adversely affect responder safety and operational effectiveness on wildfire incidents.
 D. I monitor weather station networks and analyze relevant data to determine Fire Danger Rating System ratings.
 E. I coordinate with the NWS, adjacent and national fire meteorologists, private weather vendors and State personnel to ensure forecasts and predictive services products are state-of-the-art and accurate.
 F. I provide assistance and advice to field units to provide guidance, keep informed of local conditions and ensure conformity with established fire weather policy and procedure.
 G. None of the above.
Skill in interpersonal relationships.
4. Please select the statement that best describes your experience with Predictive Services Program Management.

 A. I have led a team of experts in predictive services, helping the organization use data and analytics.
 B. I have been a member in a Predictive Service program.
 C. I have been in a supporting role in a Predictive Service program.
 D. I have limited experience with a Predictive Service program.
 E. I have no experience with Predictive Service programs.
Skill in conducting briefings and presentations with a wide range of audiences to include wildland fire directors, agency administrators, private interest groups, state air regulators and the media to convey scientific concepts and technical information.
5. Please select all statements that reflect your experience with Predictive Services Program Operations.

 A. I create fire weather briefings and long-term outlooks used by various audiences at a technological level easily understood.
 B. I produce Fire Weather forecasts that take into account pattern recognition, terrain, synoptic numerical weather models, and local knowledge in support of various fire operations.
 C. I develop new products to incorporate the latest weather and wildfire research applicable to help enhance decision making ability regarding wildfire and prescribed burn operations, including long term outlooks which may affect staffing levels with different agencies.
 D. I utilize briefing preparation software such as, but not limited to PowerPoint, Microsoft Teams Camtasia, Microsoft Excel, and other live video and presentation software.
 E. I am routinely contacted by unit or geographic managers to consult on predicted fire weather and conditions and resulting impacts on wildfire.
 F. None of the above.
Skill in application of mesoscale and complex terrain meteorology to provide on-site meteorological support.
6. Please select all statements that reflect your experience with Monitoring.

 A. I incorporate latest weather and wildfire research to help ensure the Predictive Service program and products are relevant, rigorous adaptive and impact driven.
 B. Coordinate with meteorologists, analysts, and field teams to ensure accurate situational awareness.
 C. Communicate emerging threats and recommendations to decision-makers.
 D. Guide the development and refinement of predictive tools and dashboards.
 E. Train and mentor monitoring staff in best practices and new technologies.
 F. None of the above.
Knowledge in operational Meteorology.
7. Please select all statements that reflect your experience with Technology Transfer and Applied Research.

 A. I combine meteorology, data science, ecology, and human factors to develop holistic predictive models.
 B. I measure how new tools or methods improve outcomes?like faster response times, reduced risk, or better resource efficiency.
 C. I ensure Predictive Services products are grounded in practical application, such as improving lead time for fire danger ratings or optimizing resource deployment.
 D. Lead trials of new predictive tools in operational settings, refining them based on feedback and performance.
 E. None of the above.
Only the first two (2) pages of your resume will be used to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. Any content beyond the second page will not be reviewed.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. Do the first two (2) pages of your resume include all the information needed to determine your qualifications for this position, and do you understand that any additional pages will not be reviewed?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Certify that all of the information provided in this questionnaire is true, accurate, and submitted in good faith to the best of knowledge and belief.
9. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected