Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
HRM-IMP-12790223-KC Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 28, 2025 to Thursday, September 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6.

All newly appointed, first-time CBP supervisors are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors to attend within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, first time permanent supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with current agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former first time supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. This vacancy has a local commuting area requirement, as defined below:
The area surrounding the duty station by which people reasonably travel back and forth from home to work; Or
The employee's permanent duty station is located within the reasonable travel area surrounding the duty station of this vacancy; Or if applicable
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for less than 1 year) to another duty location, the permanent duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for more than 1 year) to another duty location, the detailed or temporary duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
Do you meet the local commuting area requirement?
 A. A. Yes, I meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
 B. B. No, I do not meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
8. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes overseeing and managing organizational positions and training requirements, to include tracking, reporting, staffing projections, and budgetary requirements associated with program execution: delivering correspondence and communication, clearly and concisely, to senior leaders on issues affecting the organization; leading teams, giving advice, counseling, or instructing employees on both work and administrative matters; managing interpersonal conflict and resolving complaints from employees to enhance unit cohesion.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
Assessment 1

The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.

1. I have served as the primary liaison with the servicing human resources or personnel office for an office or small organization.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Explaining a wide range of Human Resources policies, practices, and/or procedures, ensuring accuracy and reliability of information.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
3. I have work experience providing written advice and guidance to senior officials in the following areas: (select no more than 9 answer choices as applicable)

 A. Personnel issues
 B. Position management
 C. Processing personnel actions
 D. Recruitment
 E. None of the above
4. Select from the following Human Resources specialty areas, those that you have experience in providing customer service (select no more than 9 answer choices as applicable):

 A. Performance Management or Awards
 B. Processing Personnel Actions
 C. Training & Development
 D. Staffing and recruiting
 E. None of the above
5. Select all of the following that reflect your experience maintaining strong working relationships with the organizations that you service:

 A. Consulting with Human Capital, Mission Support or equivalent on policy or procedures that affect the workforce.
 B. Facilitating recurring meetings with staff from a variety of organizational units for the purpose of meeting mission requirements.
 C. Negotiates resolution of conflicts in opinion and ensures perspectives of various stakeholders are considered in meetings for the purpose of resolving individual employee situations.
 D. None of the above
6. I have experience preparing senior briefings, presentations and/or reports to leadership that may be controversial or sensitive.

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Select the choice that best represents your highest level of experience responding to and deescalate challenging and contentious customer inquiries.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
8. Which of the following human resource management functions have you performed?

 A. Orienting new employees to the job
 B. Participating in making selections for employment
 C. Planning work assignments to be assigned to project/team members
 D. Establishing work schedules for assigned staff members (daily, weekly, bi-weekly, monthly, etc.)
 E. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees
 F. Answering employee questions and resolving problems
 G. None of the above
9. Indicate the extent of your experience coordinating and processing a variety of personnel actions.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
10. I have experience managing, leading, and/or supervising employees who perform the following Human Resource functions:

 A. Processing a variety of personnel actions through an automated payroll system
 B. Utilizing an automated personnel actions tracking system
 C. Advising on recruitment strategies, appointing authorities, and hiring flexibilities
 D. Recruiting a wide variety of occupations through various appointments using an automated hiring system
 E. Researching regulations to determine the appropriate personnel actions, pay setting and recruiting/retention allowances
 F. Providing a wide range of HR concepts, practices, laws, regulations, policies and precedents sufficient to provide comprehensive HR management advisory assistance
 G. None of the above
11. Select all of the following Human Resources specialty areas that you have experience managing, leading, and/or supervising (select no more than 9 answer choices as applicable):

 A. Staffing and recruitment
 B. Performance Management or Awards
 C. Training & Development
 D. Time and Attendance
 E. None of the above
12. Providing guidance and advice to management on various staffing matters and their requirements.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
13. I have used the following recruitment/appointment authorities and flexibilities:

 A. Delegated Examining
 B. Schedule A, B, or C Appointments
 C. Student Employment Programs (e.g., Pathways)
 D. Veterans Recruitment Appointments
 E. Superior Qualifications Appointment
 F. Merit Promotion Program
 G. None of the above
14. Select the response(s) that show the work you have performed in the areas of staffing and recruitment:

 A. Worked with selecting officials on the timing of vacancies to ensure availability of panel members and selecting official to improve efficiency in Federal hiring
 B. Provided advice and assistance to customers on staffing and recruitment policies and procedures
 C. Generated reports from an automated recruiting and staffing system
 D. None of the above
15. I have carried out the following tasks on behalf of a group of subordinate employees:

 A. Developed employee performance standards
 B. Provided input on or conducted performance appraisals
 C. Enforced workplace standards
 D. Resolved complaints and/or grievances informally
 E. Identified training needs and scheduled the appropriate training to address them
 F. Recommended disciplinary actions
 G. Participated in hiring/promotion decisions
 H. Assured fair administration of Equal Employment Opportunity statutes and principles
 I. None of the above
16. In which of the following leadership roles have you served?

 A. Acting supervisor
 B. Ad hoc work group or crew leader
 C. Permanent team / crew leader
 D. Permanent first line supervisor
 E. Acting organization or program manager
 F. None of the above
17. I have direct experience and am proficient at performing the following human resource management activities:

 A. Consulting with representatives of collective bargaining units (labor organizations) on matters affecting employee working conditions
 B. Managing a multi-disciplined workforce composed of professional, technical, and support staff
 C. Establishing performance standards and applying them when evaluating the performance of subordinate managers and supervisors
 D. None of the above
18. I have direct experience performing the following:

 A. Taking immediate action to correct undesirable or inappropriate behavior of subordinates
 B. Taking control of situations where subordinates were being subjected to undesirable or inappropriate behavior from persons outside the organization
 C. Effecting formal disciplinary actions needed to correct inappropriate conduct by subordinates
 D. Counseling employees concerning performance shortfalls
 E. Arranging for employees to take advantage of employee assistance programs to help overcome sensitive personal problems such as substance abuse, grief, mental, or emotional health issues
 F. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected