Position Title
Security Guard
Agency
Armed Forces Retirement Home
Announcement Number
25-AFRH-12763057 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 15, 2025 to Tuesday, July 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?
(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.
National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

• recently separated (within the past 3 years)
• are a disabled veteran
• served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition OR
• received an Armed Forces Service Medal

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration.

Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, please provide a reason in the text box below.
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 12,000 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Specialized experience is fifty-two (52) weeks of experience at the GS-04 level or equivalent in other public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes experience such as work with a Federal, State, municipal, local, or private protective organization that involved the protection of property against such hazards as fire, theft, damage, accident, or trespass; or maintaining order and protecting life. Such experience must have provided knowledge of protective systems and techniques. Acceptable experience includes service in the Armed Forces or Coast Guard that involved the performance of guard duties on a regular basis.
1. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-4 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
2. Please indicate where in your resume this information can be found by indicating the dates(s) and location of your experience. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Do you have a valid state driver license?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If no, please explain why you do not have a valid state driver's license. (limit 250 characters)
5. Select your type of experience responding to any of the following emergency situations or routine duties?
 A. Pull Cords
 B. Pendants
 C. Telephone emergencies
 D. Incidents resulting in death
 E. Assault reports
 F. Theft reports
 G. Accident reports
 H. Trespassing
 I. Damage property reports
 J. Fire alarms
 K. Intrusion alarms
 L. Escorts fireboard/law enforcement personnel to a destination
 M. None of the above
6. I have served as a security guard in the following establishments. Select all that apply.
 A. Government owned/controlled building
 B. Hospital/Continuing Care Retirement Community (CCRC)
 C. Museum
 D. Library
 E. Manufacturing plant
 F. Warehouse
 G. Military Installation
 H. Other facility
 I. None
7. Which of the following describes your experience relating to security duties?
 A. I have experience serving as a source of assistance to people during emergency situations.
 B. I have experience reporting violations of laws, rules, and regulations involving accidents or misconduct.
 C. I have patrolled an installation preforming response duties such as alarm response, unusual or suspicious activities, and investigating incidents.
 D. I have served as a member of an alarm/security response team.
 E. I have experience enforcing traffic regulations, to include speeding, reckless or drunken driving.
 F. I have experience issuing citations and giving warnings.
 G. I have experience performing patrol duties such as deterrence to crime and other violations of laws, rules, and regulations.
 H. I have experience inspecting persons, packages, briefings, and luggage.
 I. I have experience inspecting credentials and identification of visitors, employees, or persons and evaluating their purpose or authority to enter facilities, checkpoints, and/or secure locations.
 J. None of the above
8. Please select all that accurately describe your ability to make judgment based on the evaluation of facts and circumstances.
 A. Investigated and reported suspicious conduct and circumstances.
 B. Used judgment in selecting correct rules and procedures in legal and threatening situations and proper techniques to enforce the law.
 C. Decided on initiation of emergency procedures, such as sounding of alarms, protection of personnel in area, security of property involved, and the containment of person or things which precipitated the emergency.
 D. None of the above
9. Please indicate with which of the following security practices you have demonstrated experience.
 A. Operating a radio
 B. Inspecting credentials
 C. Inspecting property
 D. Guarding a facility
 E. Walking a perimeter
 F. Traffic control
 G. CCTV systems
 H. None of the above
10. Please indicate which of the following best describes your experience and/or ability to communicate orally.
 A. I have experience providing verbal information, answering questions, and assisting persons needing help during emergency situations.
 B. I have experience communicating with a wide variety of people, including immediate supervisors and the public, through presenting information at briefings, meetings, etc. on routine or operational issues.
 C. I have given verbal instructions to others to direct them to accomplish a task, including others who have been hostile, or uncooperative.
 D. None of the above
11. Which of the following best describes your experience writing security related reports?
 A. I have prepared incident/investigative reports covering activities and events occurring over the course of a shift.
 B. I have documented interviews.
 C. None of the above
12. Please select the type(s) of report on which you have experience documenting technical and non-technical information.
 A. Daily Logs
 B. Daily check lists
 C. Vehicle check out forms
 D. Theft reports
 E. Accident reports
 F. Investigative reports
 G. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected