Position Title
BORDER PATROL AGENT
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-SMP(ICTAP)-12779033-AA Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 8, 2025 to Thursday, August 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/
1. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is currently on Active Duty?

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority. 

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit official supporting documentation (i.e. copy of the Active Duty orders or statement of service)

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit all supporting documents identified on the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Member 4 copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.). For information on how to request veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000   or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/ 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans Resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4.

Are you a current or former land management employee eligible to apply under The Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act as described in 5 U.S.C 9602, who meets the conditions below?  

Hired for a temporary or term position under a competitive appointment.  

Served one or more temporary or term appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years.  

Performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service.  

If no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following: 

Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 reflecting your time limited status. 

Additional Standard Form 50s may be required to demonstrate a service period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years.  

Your most recent performance appraisal demonstrating fully successful, or equivalent.  See Additional Information section of vacancy announcement for further details.    

If you have had multiple periods of time-limited employment, you must show proof of acceptable levels of employment for each of the periods of employment used to satisfy the 24-month requirement.  

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. For information on how to request your veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000  or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you proficient and able to communicate in the Spanish language?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
 G. Not applicable. I am eligible for consideration under a Special Appointing Authority.
4. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
6. Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. § 1997?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Select a location preference from the list below. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for more information.
--Select-- 
--Select--
Big Bend Sector Stations
Blaine Sector Stations
Buffalo Sector Stations
Del Rio Sector Stations
Detroit Sector Stations
El Paso Sector Stations
El Centro Sector Stations
Grand Forks Sector Stations
Havre Sector Stations
Houlton Sector Stations
Laredo Sector Stations
Miami Sector Stations
New Orleans Sector Stations
Rio Grande Valley Sector Stations
San Diego Sector Stations
Spokane Sector Stations
Swanton Sector Stations
Tucson Sector Stations
Yuma Sector Stations
Assessment 1
1. Your Hash ID is used to retrieve your score from an external database. Please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA. (limit 7 characters)
The following questions will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
2. Which of the following statements best describes your experience for the GS-12 level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Interpreting and enforcing immigration or comparable laws, rules, and regulations; Performing intelligence, prosecutions, investigations, anti-smuggling, identifying operational problems, devising solutions, ensuring compliance of enforcement and operational practices; Apprises management of deficiencies or noted problems.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Select the choice which best describes your ability to establish and maintain effective working relations with the public.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided routine information, resolved simple problems, questions, or complaints, and directed nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints to the appropriate person/office.
 C. I have maintained relationships with members of the public who have varied needs, assessed their needs, and provided moderately complex information to them. I have resolved fairly complex or nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints.
 D. I have developed and maintained relationships with interest groups with varied needs, anticipated and assessed their needs, and provided complex information to them. I have resolved complex or nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints.
4. Select the choice which best describes your experience in using observation techniques and monitoring behavioral characteristics to assess travelers' risk for terrorism, criminal activity, or status violations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in the use of observation techniques and monitoring of behavioral characteristics to assess travelers' risk for terrorism, criminal activity, or status violations, but have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have had some experience in using observation techniques and monitoring behavioral characteristics to assess travelers' risk for terrorism, criminal activity, or status violations, primarily as part of my regular job duties.
 D. I have had extensive experience in using observation techniques and monitoring behavioral characteristics to assess travelers' risk for terrorism, criminal activity, or status violations as part of my regular job duties.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience in questioning travelers to obtain information.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training on questioning techniques, but have not applied this knowledge in my work.
 C. I have questioned resistant individuals to obtain information about their identity and purpose of travel.
 D. I have questioned hostile individuals to obtain information about suspected illegal activities.
6. Select the response that best describes your knowledge of U.S. visa and travel document requirements.

 A. I have no knowledge of these requirements.
 B. I have basic knowledge of U.S. visa and travel document requirements, but have not applied this knowledge in my work.
 C. I have working knowledge of U.S. visa and travel document requirements and have experience applying this knowledge in my work under the guidance of a supervisor or more senior individual.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of and experience interpreting, applying, and following U.S. visa and travel document requirements.
 E. I have conducted training (e.g., classroom lectures, special briefings, instruction) on U.S. visa and travel document requirements.
7. Indicate your highest level of experience determining the authenticity of documentation (e.g., passport, birth certificate) required of a person to enter/exit the United States.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in determining the authenticity of documentation required of a person to enter/exit the United States, but have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have independently determined the authenticity of documentation required of a person to enter/exit the United States as a regular part of my job duties.
 D. I have trained others in determining the authenticity of documentation required of a person to enter/exit the United States.
8. Select the response that best describes your experience applying personal search policies and procedures.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received basic training on personal search policies and procedures, but have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have experience conducting patdown searches of individuals suspected of carrying contraband.
 D. I have experience conducting patdown searches as well as partial body searches after establishing reasonable suspicion.
 E. I have conducted training (e.g., classroom lectures, special briefings, instruction) on the application of personal search policies and procedures.
9. Select the choice which best describes the extent of your experience in apprehending and detaining individuals suspected of violating applicable laws and regulations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I am knowledgeable of the laws, regulations, and policies related to apprehension and detention of suspected violators, but I have had little or no experience in applying these laws, regulations, or policies.
 C. I have experience arresting and detaining suspected violators while ensuring adherence to applicable laws, regulations, and policies.
 D. I have experience supervising the arrest and detention of suspected violators, while ensuring adherence to applicable laws, regulations, and policies.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience in identifying, apprehending, and prosecuting individuals in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act and related laws.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the direction of my supervisors, I have identified, apprehended, and prosecuted individuals in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act and related laws.
 C. I have had some experience leading others in the identification, apprehension, and prosecution of individuals in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act and related laws.
 D. I have had extensive experience directing and monitoring peers or lower level employees in the identification, apprehension, and prosecution of individuals in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act and related laws.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in identifying and deterring schemes and methods used to smuggle contraband or aliens.

 A. I have had no training or experience in this task.
 B. I have received training in identifying and deterring schemes and methods used to smuggle contraband or aliens, but I have had limited experience in performing this task.
 C. I have had experience, under the direct supervision or guidance of others, in identifying and deterring schemes and methods used to smuggle contraband or aliens.
 D. I have had extensive experience in identifying and deterring schemes and methods used to smuggle contraband or aliens.
12. Indicate the extent of your training and experience interdicting terrorists entering/leaving the United States.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received basic training in interdicting terrorists entering/leaving the United States, but have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have received basic training in interdicting terrorists entering/leaving the United States, and I have used this training in the performance of my regular job duties.
 D. I have received advanced training in interdicting terrorists entering/leaving the United States, and I have utilized this training in the performance of my regular job duties.
13. Indicate the extent of your knowledge concerning the transportation and shipping industry's practices, procedures, and carrier modes.

 A. I have no knowledge of the transportation and shipping industry's practices, procedures, or carrier modes.
 B. I have basic knowledge of the transportation and shipping industry's practices, procedures, and carrier modes, primarily from dealing with representatives from this industry or working in a related field.
 C. I have some knowledge of the transportation and shipping industry's practices, procedures, or carrier modes, primarily from working in the industry or as part of my regular job duties.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of the transportation and shipping industry's practices, procedures, and carrier modes, primarily from working in this industry or as part of my regular job duties.
14. Select the response that best describes your experience evaluating information on a conveyance or shipment to determine the risk or threat level.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have, under the direct supervision or guidance of others, evaluated information on a conveyance or shipment to determine the risk or threat level.
 C. I have independently evaluated information on a conveyance or shipment to determine the risk or threat level.
 D. I have instructed or supervised others in the evaluation of information on a conveyance or shipment to determine the risk or threat level.
15. Select the choice which best describes your ability to use automated systems (e.g., Treasury Enforcement Communications Systems (TECS), Intelligent Computer Assisted Detection (ICAD), National Crime Information Center (NCIC)) for enforcement operations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic knowledge of automated systems used for enforcement operations but limited hands-on experience in using the systems to research and locate information.
 C. I have independently used automated systems and data processing technology to research and locate information (e.g., manifests, conducting records checks, lookouts).
 D. I have extensive knowledge of and experience in using automated systems for enforcement operations, and I have trained and instructed peers and lower level employees in the proper use of these systems to research and locate information (e.g., manifests, conducting records checks, lookouts).
16. Indicate the extent of your involvement in tactical operations, processes, or projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in tactical operations (e.g., pre-primary blitzes, intensive boardings, roving) or the enrollment of alternative inspection programs to facilitate low-risk arrivals (e.g., C-TPAT, BASC, SCIP, CIT).
 C. I have developed plans for tactical operations (e.g., pre-primary blitzes, intensive boardings, roving) or alternative inspection programs to facilitate low-risk arrivals (e.g., C-TPAT, BASC, SCIP, CIT).
 D. I have evaluated projects or plans for tactical operations or alternative inspection programs for effectiveness, efficiency, and compliance.
17. Indicate the extent of your experience handling sensitive information (e.g., classified information, operationally sensitive information, intelligence information, employee information).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received basic training in this area and have been responsible for safeguarding sensitive information in accordance with prescribed procedures.
 C. I have extensive knowledge of the procedures for safeguarding sensitive information and have provided guidance and direction to others in this area.
 D. I have been responsible for the oversight of sensitive information, to include ensuring adherence with all policies and procedures at a work group level or higher.
18. Indicate the extent of your experience in handling stressful situations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt with occasional periods of mild stress.
 C. As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt on a daily basis with moderate stress (e.g., handling heavy workloads, meeting tight deadlines).
 D. As part of my regular job duties, I have frequently dealt with highly stressful situations (e.g., dealing face-to-face with hostile or violent individuals, shooting situations).
19. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate with all levels of employees, and resolve work-related problems as needed.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conferred with others on an individual basis to resolve work-related problems.
 C. I have resolved work-related problems immediately and anticipated and attempted to prevent potential issues while balancing inspectional or customer service requirements.
 D. I have successfully led several teams which have met project goals and deadlines through clearly communicating goals and objectives, and helping to reach consensus on problems/issues that would arise.
20. Indicate the extent of your experience coaching and training lower-graded employees on solving problems.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have some experience providing informal coaching or training to lower-graded employees on how to solve routine problems.
 C. I have extensive experience providing coaching and training to lower-graded employees on how to solve non-routine or complex problems.
 D. I have developed and presented formalized training to lower-graded employees on a wide variety of non-routine and complex problems.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected