Position Title
ACQUISITION PROGRAM MANAGER
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12781609-JRB Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 20, 2025 to Wednesday, September 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. The following question will be used to determine if you meet the certification requirement. An applicant must possess a FAI FAC-P/PM Senior-Level Program Management certification with DHS P/PM Specialization, or the ability to obtain this certification within 18 months of placement. The position may also require DHS IT Specialization if assigned to an IT or Mixed Program.

Please select the answer that best describes your certification level.
 A. I currently possess a FAI FAC-P/PM Senior-Level Program Management certification with DHS P/PM Specialization.
 B. I have the ability to obtain these certifications within 18 months of placement to the position.
 C. I do not currently possess a FAI FAC-P/PM Senior-Level Program Management certification with DHS P/PM Specialization or will not have the ability to obtain these certifications within 18 months of placement to the position.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Reviewing program progress, measuring performance and taking necessary corrective actions to maintain agreed upon schedule and cost; Providing input to CBP senior acquisition management personnel regarding the budget and execution/performance status related to programs assigned; Ensuring proper resolution of issues raised based on performance trends, forecasts schedule, budget, manpower, or quality problems; Keeping CBP leadership fully informed of program progress, issues and their resolution, and impacts of any costs.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience managing acquisition program execution.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been trained on managing acquisition program execution, but I have not applied this training in my work.
 C. I have worked as a program/project manager managing acquisition program execution by ensuring that individual tasks within the program are properly defined and schedules are met.
 D. I have independently managed acquisition program/project execution by ensuring that work for the entire program is properly planned and schedules are met.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience controlling and managing a budget on projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have worked collaboratively with others monitoring projects' budgets by ensuring that expended funds match with projections.
 C. I have independently managed a project's budget by ensuring that funds are appropriately utilized and spent over the course of a project.
 D. I have independently managed the progress of a project's budget from planning through execution by ensuring that realistic spend plans were established and monitoring throughout the life of the project.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience in planning for acquisition programs.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience in managing short range planning for acquisition programs.
 C. I have worked collaboratively with others to manage long-range planning (e.g., schedules, plans, budgets) for acquisition programs.
 D. I have managed long-range planning for a portfolio of acquisition programs; including establishing goals, objectives, and evaluation criteria and developing detailed plans, schedules, and budgets.
5. Select the option that best describes your experience in determining required shifts in program emphasis.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have identified potential shifts in program emphasis, and recommended corrective actions to a supervisor or other more senior individual.
 C. I have experience independently identifying needed shifts in program emphasis and I have recommended necessary corrective actions and the priority of their execution.
 D. I have extensive experience identifying and evaluating risks in program implementation to determine necessary shifts in program emphasis, identifying corrective actions and the priority of their execution.
6. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of acquisition management concepts.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have knowledge of acquisition management concepts, but I have not applied this knowledge in my work.
 C. I have knowledge of acquisition management concepts, and I have used that knowledge to oversee the planning and execution of an acquisition program or project.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of acquisition management concepts, and I have used that knowledge to oversee a portfolio of acquisition programs or projects.
7. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of the congressional authorization and appropriation process.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have knowledge of the congressional authorization and appropriation process, but I have not applied this knowledge in my work.
 C. I have knowledge of the congressional authorization and appropriation process, and I have used that knowledge to prepare and secure funds, and manage program budgets.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of the congressional authorization and appropriation process, and I have used that knowledge to prepare and secure funds, and manage a portfolio of programs.
8. Select the option that best describes your experience evaluating contract performance.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated as a member of a team evaluating contractor progress toward meeting established terms and conditions, and I have alerted a supervisor or more senior individual of issues with contract performance.
 C. I have independently evaluated contractor progress toward meeting terms and conditions.
 D. I have evaluated contractor performance toward meeting overall contract terms and conditions. I have taken corrective actions when necessary to maintain agreed upon acquisition program objectives.
9. Select the option that best describes your experience in working in teams to complete a an acquisition program.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been a member of a team, tasked with a specific acquisition program task that successfully met its goals and objectives.
 C. I have led one team tasked with complex or challenging acquisition program-related responsibilities where I communicated goals and objectives to team members and distributed work tasks appropriately to successfully meet the goals and objectives of the project.
 D. I have served as a team leader on multiple acquisition projects in which I established and communicated responsibilities for team members, set expectations, made adjustments, and monitored the status and progress of work of team members to ensure timely accomplishment of the project.
10. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of acquisition laws, policies, regulations, and processes to ensure compliance.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have knowledge of acquisition laws, policies, regulations, and processes, but I have not applied this knowledge in my work.
 C. I have knowledge of acquisition laws, policies, regulations, and processes, and I have used that knowledge to review existing acquisition projects in my work unit.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of acquisition laws, policies, regulations, and processes, and I have used that knowledge to review existing acquisition projects in multiple work units, providing recommendations to ensure all work is in compliance with relevant laws, policies, and regulations.
 E. I have extensive knowledge of acquisition laws, policies, regulations, and processes, and I have used that knowledge to develop acquisition policies and processes for use across my organization.
11. Select the option that best describes your experience leading acquisition projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated as a team member on an acquisition project, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 C. I have served as a team leader for an acquisition project, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 D. I have led several acquisition project teams, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines and evaluating individual team member performance.
12. Select the option that best describes your experience in using program monitoring and control tools.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have experience in using program monitoring and control tools, but I have not been responsible for independently performing this task.
 C. I have experience using program monitoring and control tools (e.g., Work Breakdown Structures (WBS), Integrated Master Plans/Integrated Master Schedules (IMP/IMS), Earned Value Management Systems (EVMS)) as a member of an acquisition project team.
 D. I have leveraged program monitoring and control tools (e.g., Work Breakdown Structures (WBS), Integrated Master Plans/Integrated Master Schedules (IMP/IMS), Earned Value Management Systems (EVMS)) to ensure programs are executing efficiently and predict future performance.
13. Select the option that best describes your experience in monitoring performance measurements to evaluate the effectiveness of acquisition program performance.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have monitored the performance of one component of a larger acquisition program and have reported on that progress to a team member or the team lead.
 C. I have monitored the performance of several components of a larger acquisition program and have reported on that progress to a supervisor or other more senior individual.
 D. I have been the primary person responsible for monitoring the overall progress of a large and complex acquisition program. I have evaluated overall performance and reported out on the progress to leadership including providing alternatives for corrective actions.
14. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of business management concepts and principles.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have knowledge of business management concepts and principles, but I have not applied this knowledge in my work.
 C. I have a working knowledge of business management concepts and principles, and I have applied this knowledge on acquisition program work.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of business management concepts and principles and I have applied this knowledge on acquisition program work.
 E. I have extensive knowledge of business management concepts and principles, and I am often consulted to make recommendations on business operations of acquisition programs.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected