Position Title
Theraputc Radiologic Tech
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12752692-25-SO Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 14, 2025 to Tuesday, July 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a career with the VA. The following questions will determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for the Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist position.

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency. Medical Dosimetrists must be proficient in spoken and written English. See 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Education. Individuals must have successfully completed a program in therapeutic radiologic technology, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's or higher degree accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology or other accrediting bodies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education (ED) and the subsequent completion of a 12-month ED accrediting body-approved program in therapeutic radiologic technology.

Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 C.F.R. Part 75. They must have successfully completed an educational program meeting or exceeding the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the ED, and be radiation therapists certified by the ARRT in Radiation Therapy (T).

Do you meet the education requirements as described above for the Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2a. Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you completed a program in therapeutic radiologic technology, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's or higher degree.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree: Major/Program:
Month and Year Conferred:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Certification: All applicants must be certified in therapeutic radiologic technology by the ARRT in Radiation Therapy (ARRT) (T). 

Exceptions:
Non-certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for TRT certification may be given a temporary appointment under 38 U.S.C. § 7405
(1)(B) for up to one year at the entry level only as a graduate TRT under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405 (c)(2)(B).
Graduate TRTs may only be appointed at the entry grade level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
Temporary graduate TRT appointments may not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment..
Do you meet the certification requirements as listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3a. Please provide your license/certification information. 

Name on License:
Issuing State or Territory: 
Complete License Number:
Issue Date:
Expiration Date:
 
Quality of Experience. Experience is only creditable if it is post-certification (as noted in paragraph 3c below) experience as a TRT directly related to the position being filled. Qualifying experience must be at a level comparable to TRT experience at the next lower grade level. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, administrative independence, complexity and range of variety as described in this standard at the specified grade level and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. Experience as a graduate TRT is creditable provided the candidate functioned as a TRT and subsequently passed the certification examination.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. GRADE DETERMINATION: In addition to meeting the basic requirements,  you must have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-09. TRTs at this level are independently assigned to most areas of radiation therapy and to some advanced therapies. Skill in independently performing machine warm-up procedures to interpret output levels compared with established thresholds adhering to the principles of radiation safety and all aspects of quality assurance.  Skill to independently perform patient chart reviews and effectively document records utilizing an electronic medical records system and the Record and Verify System or other similar treatment delivery systems.

Do you have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Demonstrated KSAs: In addition to meeting the experience requirement, candidates must also demonstrate the following KSAs.
Skill in independently performing machine warm up procedures and interpreting output levels compared with established thresholds adhering to the principles of radiation safety and all aspects of quality assurance.
Ability to independently perform patient chart reviews using an electronic medical record and the Record and Verify System or other similar treatment delivery systems.
Ability to independently perform all basic and complex CT simulations, 9 including independently operating the CT equipment, following directives, designing custom immobilization for reproducible set-ups, obtaining optimal imaging, completing accurate data transfer for treatment planning and providing accurate and precise patient documentation.
Ability to utilize a Linac's On Board Imaging system to interpret complex images.
Can you fully demonstrate the KSAs as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected