Position Title
Accounting Officer
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
CFO-JD-12803031-25-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND meet one (1) of the following?
Retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30% or more; or
Rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) or have a disability determination from a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more.
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent); AND
Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating of at least 30% or more (NOTE: overall percentage must be clearly shown);
 SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 6)
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the spouse's active-duty status (i.e., spouse's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) or Active Duty military orders, or official documentation from the Armed Forces branch that verifies spouse's active status). Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) extends the temporary provision in which spouses are not required to relocate with active-duty service members on PCS orders. The sunset date of this provision is December 31, 2028.
-OR-

Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100%, or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the spouse's military service (i.e., DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent); and
Verification of the service member's 100% disability (i.e., Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying the overall compensable service-connected disability rating of 100%) NOTE: The overall percentage must be clearly shown; and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 7; 7a and Page 2 - Answer questions 1-7)
-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces who was killed while in active-duty status?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the member's death while on active duty (i.e., DD-1300, Report of Casualty or equivalent); and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 8; 8a/8b)
NOTE: A spouse is not eligible if not married to the veteran at the time of death or have since remarried.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who has never held the highest grade level (or equivalent) for the position is being announced?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
The highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50) and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Actions, SF-50, include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who currently holds or has previously held the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential (or equivalent) for the position being announced?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50)
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm the following:  
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which will be or were separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which will be or were separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, notice of (proposed) removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside the local commuting area (e.g., a directed reassignment or a change in duty station), notice of compensable work-related injury or illness termination and agency certification of inability to place, or notice of disability annuity termination; AND
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; AND
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee on a time-limited appointment in the competitive service of a Land Management agency? If yes, confirm the following:

As a current/former employee of a Land Management Agency you MUST work or have worked for one the following:
The Department of Agriculture's Forest Service; or
The Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Reclamation.
AND
Are/were on a temporary or term appointment (time-limited) in the competitive service; and
Worked for a land management agency under one (1) or more time-limited appointments for a period or periods totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years; and
Received acceptable performance ratings during each period of service.
Note:  Former land management employees most recent separation must be for reasons other than misconduct or performance AND must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
ALL Appointment AND Resignation/Termination, SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), totaling more than 24 months that reflects all the following:
Temporary or Term appointment (Tenure Code is "0" or "3" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34)
Performance appraisal showing the official rating of record and signed by a supervisor, for each qualifying period of temporary or term appointment; or, if one is unavailable, provide a statement of performance for each period of service. The statement must specify the dates for each employment period and level of performance (dates should match the dates on the SF-50s).
For more information review Land management, Land Management Eligible, and Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a current Federal employee in the excepted service and/or in other merit systems of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM)?  If yes, confirm the following:
Currently serving under an appointment that is not time-limited or have been involuntarily separated from such appointment without personal cause within the preceding year; and
Current serving in or have been involuntarily separated from a position covered by an interchange agreement; and 
Served continuously for at least one (1) year under the interchange agreement.
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.

-OR-

Are you a current Federal employee of a Federal Agency covered under other miscellaneous appointing authorities not regulated by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Other Miscellaneous Authorities include the following?
Postal Career Service Employees
Postal Rate Commission Employees
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employees
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employees
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify eligibility, you must submit your most recent, Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, and the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting eligibility under the OPM Interchange Agreement or Other Miscellaneous Authorities.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you a FORMER competitive-service employee of the Federal Government OR veterans' preference eligible, including those with derived preference, who PREVIOUSLY HELD a career or career-conditional (non-time-limited) appointment?  

To verify eligibility, you must submit your most recent separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
A career appointment (Tenure Code is 1 in block 24) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); or
A career-conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 2 in block 24) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34)*; and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent separation SF-50)
If claiming veterans' preference with eligibility, you must submit the following:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service and/or
Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating of at least 30% or more (NOTE: overall percentage must be clearly shown); and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference 
*If you do not have veterans' preference or did not acquire career tenure, you are only eligible to be reinstated within 3 years after the date of your separation.

For more information review: Reinstatement Eligibility
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability or a psychiatric disability that qualifies for a Schedule A hiring authority?

To verify eligibility, you must submit a disability letter on official stationery/letterhead with an official signature. The letter should clearly state full name and that a person with a disability and are eligible for appointment under Schedule A hiring authority as outlined in 5 CFR Section 213.3102(u). Such documentation must be from one of the below sources:
A licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional duly certified by a State, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory, to practice medicine); or
A licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (State or private); or
Any Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.
A sample letter (PDF file) can be found on the OPM website.

For more information, review Individuals with Disabilities resources
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a Veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and meet one (1) of the following?
Entitled to veterans' preference, including those with derived preference; or
A veteran separated or are expected to be separated within the next 120 days, from the armed forces after three (3) or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. Veterans who were released shortly before completing a 3-year tour are considered eligible.
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service; or
Future Military Retirees/Separatees submit a certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification*.
Disabled Veterans submit certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification* AND an official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating AND/OR SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C).
*This certification letter must indicate dates of active service, rank/grade, expected character of service (i.e., honorable or general) and type of separation (i.e., separation or retirement). Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

"Active service" defined in title 37, United States Code, means active duty in the uniformed services and includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, full-time National Guard duty, and attendance, while in the active service, at a school designated as a service school by law or by the Secretary of the military department concerned.

For more information, review Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Accounting Officer position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification.  Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. This position has an Individual Occupational Requirement. Select the one statement that best describes your education and/or experience.
 A. I have successfully completed a degree in accounting. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 B. I have successfully completed a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance or public administration, which included at least 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing. (The 24 semester hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.) (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 C. I have at least four 4 years of experience in accounting or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training, in addition to meeting one of the following criteria: 1) I have completed 24 semester hours of college-level accounting or auditing courses, which can include up to 6 semester hours of business law. 2) I have been certified through written examination as a Certified Public Accountant or Certified Internal Auditor. 3) I have completed the requirements for a degree that included substantial coursework in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but less than the 24 semester hours required in ‘B’ above and have successful work experience in accounting, auditing, or a related field such as valuation engineering or financial institution examining that together demonstrate (1) a good knowledge of accounting and underlying fields and (2) a level of experience equivalent to the full performance level of the job being filled. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 D. My education/experience is not reflected in the above statements.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the specialized experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Accounting Officer at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service which includes serving as a senior accountant responsible for providing guidance to lower-level accounting staff; reviewing and analyzing complex accounting documents, reports, policies and procedures involving a range of federal appropriations and accounts; advising and recommending solutions to financial management administration issues that require adjustment of new or revised methods; developing short- and long-term financial management goals and objectives.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statements.
3. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience analyzing financial principles to evaluate regulatory or user-initiated requirements to develop and support recommendations for financial management system changes.

 A. I currently analyze financial principles to evaluate requirements, regulations, and internal controls to develop and support recommendations.
 B. I have experience but am not currently analyzing financial principles to evaluate requirements, regulations, and internal controls to develop and support recommendations.
 C. I do not have experience in analyzing financial principles to evaluate requirements, regulations, and internal controls to develop and support recommendations.
4. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience analyzing financial data within an automated system to ensure information integrity, completeness, and consistency.

 A. I have independently performed financial audits as a regular part of my job by utilizing an automated system to ensure information integrity, completeness, and consistency.
 B. With close supervision, I have performed financial audits as a regular part of my job by utilizing an automated system to ensure information integrity, completeness, and consistency.
 C. I have received training on performing financial audits within an automated system.
 D. I do not have experience analyzing financial data within an automated system.
5. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your experience supporting business processes in the financial systems field.
 A. I have interpreted and/or implemented existing, new or revised accounting principles and concepts.
 B. I have planned and conducted studies for the development, review, analysis, evaluation, and modification of existing financial, procurement and property management practices, procedures, and systems.
 C. I have conducted analyses of operations and prepared recommendations for enhancing efficiency and/or effectiveness.
 D. I have provided financial management advice to management, and coordinated modifications to financial, procurement and property management system activities.
 E. None of the above
6. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your experience with financial reporting.

 A. Developed automated financial reports for an organization's senior management.
 B. Made presentations to senior management on financial activity.
 C. Reviewed reports from other financial staff of an organization.
 D. Reviewed and reported on the financial activity to external stakeholders.
 E. Instructed staff or other internal professionals on financial reporting.
 F. Prepared monthly and annual financial reports for an organization.
 G. Reconciled external financial reports with internal records.
 H. None of the above
7. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your experience in the development of financial reporting capabilities
 A. I have developed automated financial reports for my organization.
 B. I have tested and supported the implementation of a financial reporting system.
 C. I have managed the implementation of a financial reporting system.
 D. I have provided reporting requirements for the development of a financial reporting system.
 E. I have instructed staff or other internal professionals on financial reporting systems.
 F. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
8. From the list below, select the response that best describes your experience reviewing the impact of new accounting procedures for the appropriations assigned, to determine the effect on financial reporting requirements.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
9. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe your experience writing financial audit reports.
 A. I have written reports identifying noncompliance with regulations.
 B. I have written reports identifying inefficient practices.
 C. I have written reports identifying internal control structure and effectiveness.
 D. I have written reports that describe clear audit trails from the general ledger to subsidiary records.
 E. I have issued opinions on financial statements.
 F. None of the above
10. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your managerial/supervisory experience.
 A. I have experience serving as a Team/Project Leader with responsibility for communicating goals and priorities, developing assignments, establishing deadlines, providing feedback, and coaching, and ensuring that completed assignments meet established standards and program requirements.
 B. I have experience providing direction and supervision to a staff of journeyman-level personnel which included responsibility for establishing performance standards, expectations, and deadlines; prioritizing work; resolving conflicts and complaints; managing workload distribution; reviewing and approving completed assignments; evaluating performance; recruiting and hiring; and promoting EEO principles and practices.
 C. I have experience managing an organization with subordinate managers reporting directly to me. Responsibilities included establishing program priorities, budgeting, and internal controls; allocation of resources; measuring program performance; and ensuring program goals align with organizational goals.
 D. I have executive managerial experience with responsibility for establishing and reinforcing broad organizational goals, vision, and program priorities; ensuring that sound strategic and operational plans are established, including multi-year planning; enforcing accountability for organizational performance; and enlisting support and buy-in from external parties for the organization's programs.
 E. None of the above.
11. Select the option that best represents your experience leading others through activities, such as motivating and challenging others to achieve their potential, influencing the actions of others by serving as a role model, and guiding members of a group toward the achievement of a goal.
 A. I have no experience, formal education, or training with leading others.
 B. I have received formal education or training from an accredited source or through official job-training on leading others.
 C. I have performed leadership activities (e.g., motivating others to achieve expectations, influencing the actions of others by providing them with a role model, providing guidance to members of a group toward the achievement of a goal) for routine roles and responsibilities.
 D. I have performed leadership activities (e.g., motivating others to achieve expectations, influencing the actions of others by providing them with a role model, providing guidance to members of a group toward the achievement of a goal) for strategic and high-impact work.
12. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your experience implementing plans consistent with the long-term interest of the agency.
 A. Developed and monitored a project plan to organize the tasks and priorities of a team.
 B. Considered needs and trends in development of strategic plans.
 C. Implemented project or operational plans.
 D. Allocated resources such as time or staff to facilitate project goals.
 E. Kept abreast of internal trends and events.
 F. Prioritized tasks and projects to meet goals.
 G. Evaluated the impact of projects on the agency.
 H. None of the above.
13. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your ability to develop and implement an organizational vision, which integrates key program goals, priorities, values, and other factors.
 A. Formulated long-term goals for an organization that are consistent with key organizational priorities and values and develops a shared vision of a desirable future state.
 B. Set priorities and established strategies for implementing a vision which affect program(s)/project(s) within an agency at the key management level.
 C. Identified the organization's key issues and developed strategies to build strengths and leads organizational change.
 D. Redirected program activities in direction of a new strategic thrust, experience in setting priorities and establishing strategies for implementing vision.
 E. None of the above.
14. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your experience planning a complex management and organization program.

 A. Planned the work of specialist professionals and administrative support personnel engaged in carrying out the various functions in the designated program areas.
 B. Collaborated in the formulation of short- and long-range program area plans, goals, and objectives.
 C. Prepared justifications for major program changes, reorganization, budget requests, and staffing and equipment needs.
 D. Analyzed and evaluated strategic issues, program performance, and management or statistical information to inform decision making for agency management and organization programs.
 E. None of the above.
15. From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your ability to make decisions and produce results through strategic planning and the implementation and evaluation of programs and policies.
 A. Established and maintained liaison with senior officials.
 B. Coordinated with senior officials on policy and strategy matters.
 C. Recommended changes to policy to accommodate specific needs and requirements.
 D. Provided advice and guidance to senior officials regarding strategic planning, program evaluation and performance or statistical analysis.
 E. None of the above
16. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected