Position Title
Veterinary Medical Officer (District Veterinary Medical Officer)
Agency
Food Safety and Inspection Service
Announcement Number
FSIS-25-MMP-12778069-BMF Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 to Monday, August 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
1. Are you a current Food Safety and Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Food Safety and Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. DOCUMENT UPLOADS - I understand that each document uploaded must be less than 5MB and in one of the following document formats: GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, PDF, TXT, or Word (.DOC or .DOCX). For more information see the "How to Apply" portion of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. How did you learn about this FSIS position? Please select all that apply.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Social Media (such as Facebook, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Job Finder Site (such as Indeed, Monster, etc.)
 D. Job Board from School, College, University, or Alumni Organization (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity, 12Twenty, Other)
 E. Local Billboard
 F. FSIS-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event
 G. School-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event Sponsored by a School, College, University, or Alumni Organization
 H. FSIS Employee
 I. USDA Employee
 J. Friend, Family Member, or non-FSIS or non-USDA Coworker
 K. USAJobs Search
 L. Other
5. Please share any additional details about how you learned about this position, especially if you selected "Other" in the previous question. If nothing to add, enter "N/A".
6. Potential Variation in Shift, Duty Location, and Amount of Travel:

Vacancy shift, duty location, and amount of travel may be frequent. I am willing to accept a position that includes the following (select all that apply):
 A. 1st Shift
 B. 2nd Shift
 C. 3rd Shift
 D. Rotating Shifts
 E. Varying shifts with frequent travel (50%-75% of the time)
 F. Varying shifts with very frequent travel (76% or more of the time)
7. 2-PAGE LIMIT ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - I understand that there is a 2-page limit on resume length for the initial qualification determination. If my resume is longer than two pages, only the first two pages will be reviewed to determine if I qualify.

For more information on what to include in your resume, see the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. I have at least 52 weeks of time in grade at the GS12 (or equivalent) grade level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the announcement and it is clearly identified in my resume.
 A. My resume demonstrates at least one year of experience applying and enforcing policies, practices, and regulations; knowledge of veterinary medical concepts, scientific literature, and emerging issues related to food safety; experience in coordination of new or revised veterinary medical policies, methods, or procedures; experience interpreting and applying the rules, regulations, policies, and procedures of the inspection program such as humane handling, antemortem, postmortem, inspection procedures conducted in slaughter establishments, Hazardous Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP), or Sanitation Standard Operating Procedures (SSOP); and experience establishing and maintaining relationships with internal and external stakeholders.
 B. I do not have the experience as described above.
Please respond to the two questions below as they are related to your education to qualify for the Veterinary Medical Science Series, 0701.
3. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess.

 A. I have a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) or equivalent degree, i.e., Veterinary Medical Doctor (VMD), obtained at a school or college of veterinary medicine accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education (AVMA). The AVMA web site, http://www.avma.org (external link), has a listing of all AVMA-accredited veterinary medical schools.
 B. I am a graduate of a foreign Veterinary Medical School. Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools that are not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education (Refer to AVMA web site, http://www.avma.org for information about schools in this category) AND have proof of certification of my final transcript by the Educational Commission for Foreign Veterinary Graduates (ECFVG).
 C. I am a graduate of a foreign Veterinary Medical School. Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools that are not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education (Refer to AVMA web site, http://www.avma.org for information about schools in this category) AND possess a permanent, full, and unrestricted license to practice veterinary medicine in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States that includes successful completion of the North American Veterinary Licensing Examination (NAVLE) or its predecessors, the National Board Examination (NBE) and the Clinical Competency Test (CCT).
 D. I am a graduate of a foreign Veterinary Medical School. Graduates of foreign veterinary medical schools that are not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education (Refer to AVMA web site, http://www.avma.org for information about schools in this category) AND have proof that the education obtained in a foreign veterinary medical program is equivalent to that gained in a veterinary medical program that is accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education. Under this provision, equivalency is established only if an AVMA-accredited veterinary medical school or college accepts the graduate's final transcript from the foreign veterinary medical school at full value for placement into an advanced degree, postgraduate educational program, or training program (e.g. residency or graduate program).
 E. I do not possess any of the required education listed above, but with adequate training, I believe I could perform the duties of this position.
Graduates of foreign veterinary medical programs must also provide proof of proficiency in the English language by successfully completing one of the nationally and internationally recognized examinations that incorporate assessments of reading, writing, listening, and speaking skills.
4. From the responses below please select the type of examinations that assess mastery of the English language you have completed. NOTE: If you are not a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical program PLEASE SELECT OPTION A.
 A. Not applicable as I did not attend a foreign veterinary medical program.
 B. I am a current FSIS employee and provided a SF-50 with my application showing I have already been placed in the 0701 job series as a federal employee.
 C. I have passed the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) - Minimum scores for the TOEFL are 560 for the paper-based version; 220 for the computer-based version; or overall score of 83 for the internet-based version (including 26 or higher in speaking, 26 or higher in listening, and 17 or higher in writing). For the computer-based and paper-based test versions, applicants must also complete the Test of Spoken English (TSE) and the Test of Written English (TWE). Minimum required scores are 55 for the TSE and 5.5 for the TWE.
 D. I have passed Academic tests (listening, writing, and speaking) offered by the International English Language Testing System (IELTS). Applicants must achieve a minimum overall band score of 7.0, with at least 7.0 in speaking, 6.5 in listening, and 6.0 in writing.
 E. I have passed Academic tests (listening, writing, and speaking) offered by the Canadian Academic English Language Assessment (CAEL). Applicants must achieve a minimum overall band score of 70, with at least 60 in speaking, 60 in listening, and 50 in writing.
 F. None of the above.
5. Please check all that apply. Indicate your experience writing in a clear, concise, organized, and convincing manner for the intended audience. I have:
 A. Written an article published in a scientific, trade, or professional journal relevant to animal or food science.
 B. Written technical reports for professional use relevant to animal science or food science.
 C. Provided, in writing, technical guidance relevant to animal science or food science to internal and external stakeholders.
 D. Written reports of non-compliance or regulatory findings.
 E. I do not have experience performing any of the above tasks.
6. Please check all that apply. I have experience expressing technical information orally to individuals or groups, considering the audience and nature of the information. I have:

 A. Communicated guidelines, policies, and regulations.
 B. Conducted research and investigations.
 C. Communicated veterinary medical concepts, principles, and practices.
 D. Fostered work relationships with internal and external stakeholders.
 E. I do not have experience performing any of the above tasks.
7. Please select all that apply. I have work experience:
 A. Preparing reports related to humane handling and slaughter, poultry good commercial practices, food safety, or other regulatory issues for submission.
 B. Assembling documentation related to humane handling and slaughter, poultry good commercial practices, food safety, or other regulatory issues for submission.
 C. Keeping leadership informed on emerging issues and concerns in the field.
 D. None of the above.
8. Please check all that apply. I have successfully completed a training course, or a class devoted to the topic of:
 A. Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP)
 B. Sanitation Standardized Operating Procedures (SSOP)
 C. Statistical Process Control
 D. Statistical Analysis
 E. Good Manufacturing Practices
 F. None of the above.
9. Please select all that apply. I have work experience:
 A. Compiling and analyzing data to share with internal and external stakeholders.
 B. Compiling and analyzing data to share with leaders within my organization.
 C. Compiling and analyzing data to share with Federal, State, Local, or private sector officials.
 D. None of the above.
10. Please select all that apply. This position has duties that involve acting as a liaison regarding humane handling matters. My experience includes:
 A. Acting as a liaison to ensure non-veterinary employees receive up-to-date information regarding food safety or humane handling rules, regulations, and practices.
 B. Acting as a liaison to ensure non-veterinary employees receive up-to-date information regarding good commercial practices for poultry.
 C. Acting as a liaison to my peers by researching and providing advice or training on practical, logistical, real-life implementation of humane handling practices in plants.
 D. Acting as a liaison to my peers by providing advice or training on practical, logistical, real-life implementation of good commercial practices in poultry plants.
 E. None of the above.
11. Please select all that apply. I have experience applying medical concepts, principles, and practices to ensure documentation of noncompliance:
 A. That accurately describes the conditions.
 B. The circumstances relating to the noncompliance.
 C. The significance of the noncompliance.
 D. The relationship to applicable regulatory requirements.
 E. None of the above.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
12. Please check the answer that most closely describes your experience discussing regulations, policies, or procedures related to veterinary medicine.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
13. Please check all that apply. I have experience applying veterinary medical concepts, principles, or practices working in:

 A. Slaughter plants - poultry/fowl
 B. Slaughter plants - cattle
 C. Slaughter plants - swine
 D. Slaughter plants - goats
 E. Slaughter plants – other species
 F. Import stations.
 G. I do not have experience working in any of the above environments.
14. Please select all that apply. I have work experience verbally communicating:

 A. Changes to work related procedures regarding food safety, sanitation, procedures, or humane handling to personnel.
 B. Notices, directives, and other information from headquarters.
 C. Information to other employees regarding special projects or work groups.
 D. None of the above.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
15. Please indicate your experience researching regulations, policies, and procedures to make judgments and recommendations.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
16. Please check all that apply. Indicate your experience. I have:
 A. Been a part of an emergency requiring a quarantine, epidemiologic controls, or eradication measures to effectively contain an epidemic.
 B. Implemented procedures for the prevention and control of diseases found in livestock or poultry, transmissible to humans.
 C. Identified a potential or actual contamination situations.
 D. Developed or directly influenced the technical policies, procedures, or guidelines for the effective direction and operation of a food safety program.
 E. I have not had work experience involving these activities.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
17. Please check the answer that best describes your experience ensuring the enforcement of Humane Handling and Good Commercial Practices requirements of livestock and/or poultry.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
18. Please check all that apply. Describe your experience making sound, well-informed, and objective decisions to accomplish the goals and mission of your Agency or Organization. I have:
 A. Implemented guidelines, policies, and regulations to cause change to meet the organizational mission.
 B. Fostered working relationships with internal and external stakeholders to make well-informed recommendations.
 C. Conducted research and investigations to make judgments and recommendations.
 D. Communicated decisions and determinations in writing.
 E. Communicated decisions and recommendations orally.
 F. Utilized my knowledge and understanding of veterinary concepts and principles to make decisions or recommendations.
 G. Observed and communicated humane handing and Good Commercial practices to make recommendations for improvement.
 H. I do not have experience performing any of the above tasks.
19. Please check all that apply. I have experience drafting reports, recommendations, or guidance on the following:
 A. Humane Handling
 B. Good Commercial Practices for Poultry
 C. Pathogen and residue testing
 D. HACCP processes
 E. Storage, distribution and retail handling of Meat, Poultry, and Egg products
 F. Voluntary producer participation
 G. Industry involvement in Food Safety and Humane Handling issues
 H. None of the above.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
20. I have experience where I was responsible for drafting recommendations, reports, and guidance documents to communicate requirements on a timeline.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
21. Please select all that apply. I have the following work experience:
 A. I have utilized organization approved guidelines and researched standard procedures on proper ante-mortem handling and stunning methods.
 B. I have utilized organization approved guidelines and researched standard procedures to assure enforcement of Humane Handling and Good Commercial Practice requirements.
 C. I have provided guidance to employees to ensure compliance with Humane Handling and Good Commercial Practice procedures.
 D. I have assured that animal holding areas are designed and maintained in a condition to facilitate Humane Handling and Good Commercial Practices.
 E. I do not have experience performing any of the above tasks.
22. Please check all that apply. Describe your experience performing onsite Humane Handling (HH) and Good Commercial Practices (GCP). I have:
 A. Performed post-mortem examination of carcasses and parts, organs, and body tissues for evidence of disease, parasitic infestations, biological residues, or other conditions which might render the carcasses or parts unfit for human consumption.
 B. Monitored and screened livestock or poultry through objective and subjective residue sampling and submitted blood and tissue samples to laboratories to determine dispositions.
 C. Conducted tests and utilized laboratory findings to determine dispositions.
 D. I do not have experience performing any of the above tasks.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected