Position Title
Computer Engineer
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
25-12781830B-ITX-0854-14 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 13, 2025 to Monday, August 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. ICTAP Candidate - Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?
If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal, AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) or equivalent personnel action form.
 
For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. U.S. Citizen Candidate - Are you a U.S. citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 2 location(s).
 A. (CA7462) 855 M St, Fresno, CA
 B. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution Ave, Washington DC, DC
 C. (FL0067) 400 W Bay St, Jacksonville, FL
 D. (GA0010) 2385 Chamblee Tucker, Chamblee, GA
 E. (GA1016) 4800 Buford Hwy, Chamblee, GA
 F. (IL2528) 380 Office Ct, Fairview Heights, IL
 G. (KY2032) 333 Scott St, Covington, KY
 H. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 I. (MI0800) 985 Michigan Ave, Detroit, MI
 J. (MO1937) 333 W Pershing Rd, Kansas City, MO
 K. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce, Saint Louis, MO
 L. (NY0376) 1040 Waverly Ave, Holtsville, NY
 M. (NC2598) 10715 David Taylor Dr, Charlotte, NC
 N. (PA0809) 2970 Market St, Philadelphia, PA
 O. (PR3930) 7 Tabonuco St, Guaynabo, PR
 P. (PR4062) Av Luis Munoz Rivera, San Juan, PR
 Q. (TN0005) 5333 Getwell Rd, Memphis, TN
 R. (TX2038) 3651 S IH-35, Austin, TX
 S. (TX2099) 4175 Freidrich Lane, Austin, TX
 T. (TX0302) 4050 Alpha Rd, Farmers Branch, TX
 U. (UT1431)2484 S Washington Blvd, Ogden, UT
 V. (WV0191) 250 Murall Dr, Kearneysville, WV
2. Employees of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity. Former employees will be subject to a screening of their prior performance and conduct with the Service, and all other applicants may be subject to reference checks of prior employment. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRS.

Please select the response that best describes your current or prior employment with the IRS. If you never worked for the Internal Revenue Service, you must select the last response "Not applicable."
 A. I am a current employee of the IRS.
 B. I am a former IRS employee and left under voluntary conditions; I was not involuntarily removed or terminated from IRS.
 C. I am a former IRS employee involuntarily removed or terminated under Section 1203 of the IRS Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998.
 D. I am a former IRS employee involuntarily removed or terminated for an Unauthorized Access UNAX violation.
 E. I am a former IRS employee involuntarily removed or terminated for unacceptable performance or conduct, not previously described in “c” or “d” above.
 F. Not applicable. I have never been employed by the IRS.
3. Employees of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRS will be subject to a tax check. You can "Get Your Tax Record" at http://www.irs.gov/ (https://www.irs.gov/individuals/get-transcript) and check the status of your account, balance owed, payment history, make a payment, or review answers to tax questions. Applicants not in compliance will be determined unsuitable for employment with IRS. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRS.

Please select the response that best describes your compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. You will be subject to a tax check that will verify your response to this question.
 A. I am currently compliant with all Federal Tax requirements. I have filed all tax returns, and, if applicable, paid any balance that was due.
 B. I currently have an outstanding tax obligation and/or balance due and have made the necessary arrangements with IRS to satisfy my Federal Tax obligations.
 C. I have an outstanding tax obligation and/or balance due and have NOT made any arrangements with IRS to satisfy my Federal Tax obligations.
 D. None of the above.
4. The following question is regarding your Selective Service status. If you are a male born after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, civil service employment law (5 U.S.C. 3328) requires that you must be registered with the Selective Service System, unless you meet certain exemptions under Selective Service law. If you are required to register but knowingly and willfully fail to do so, you are ineligible for appointment by executive agencies of the Federal Government (5 CFR 300.704). Visit http://www.sss.gov/ for additional information.
 A. I certify that I have registered for Selective Service.
 B. I have not registered for Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption or served in the military continuously from age 18 to age 26.
 C. I have not reached my 18th birthday and understand I am required by law to register at that time.
 D. I was required to register for Selective Service and did not register. I do not have an approved exemption, and I have not served in the military.
 E. I was born female or born before January 1, 1960, and I am not required to register by law
5. If you are a current Federal employee, by what agency and organization are you employed?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Treasury - (BEP) Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Treasury - (DO) Departmental Offices
Treasury - (FinCEN) Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
Treasury - (FS) Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Treasury - IRS
Treasury - IRS Office of the Chief Counsel
Treasury - (MINT) United States Mint
Treasury - (OCC) Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
Treasury - (OIG) Office of Inspector General
Treasury - (SIGTARP) Special Inspector General for TARP
Treasury - (TIGTA) Treasury Inspector General for Tax Admin
Treasury - (TTB) Alcohol & Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
AFRH - Armed Forces Retirement Home
DHS - (USSS) United States Secret Service
DOJ - (ATF) Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
FHFA - (OIG) Office of the Inspector General
FMSHRC - Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
GAO - Government Accountability Office
HUD - (OIG) Office of Inspector General
USDA - (FNS) Food and Nutrition Service
USDA - (OCIO) International Technology Services
USOGE - (OGE) Office of Government Ethics
Veterans Affairs - (OIG) Office of Inspector General
Other
Not Applicable
6. If you selected "Other", please enter the agency and organization.
7. If you are a current Federal employee, what is your duty station? [City, State]
8. If you are a Federal employee, under what type of appointment are you currently serving?
 A. Career Appointment, competitive service
 B. Career-conditional Appointment, competitive service
 C. Career Appointment, Excepted service - Treasury - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 D. Career-Conditional Appointment, Excepted service - Treasury - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 E. Permanent Excepted Service Appointment (Government Accountability Office)
 F. Other Excepted Service Appointment (Government Accountability Office)
 G. Excepted Service Appointment (other than listed)
 H. Temporary (Time-Limited Appointment - not to exceed 1 year or less)
 I. Term (Time-Limited Appointment - more than one year, not more than 4 years)
 J. Pathways Program (Internship, Recent Graduates, or Presidential Management Fellows)
 K. Not Applicable
9. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04. (limit 250 characters)
10. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. For example: GS-05, IR-02, WG-04.
11. Are you a current or former Federal employee with reinstatement eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
12. Are you a retiree receiving a Federal annuity, either military or civilian?

Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
14. Regarding the effectiveness of our recruitment strategies; how did you first hear about this job?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Automated USAJOBS saved search notification
Posting on a job board or search agent other than USAJOBS (Monster, CareerBuilder, Indeed, LinkUp, etc.)
Social Media posting (Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, on-line job fairs, etc.)
IRS Careers Website
Referred by an IRS employee
Attended a recruitment event Job/Career Fair, Open House, Meet and Greet, Meetup, etc.
IRS Veterans Program Office
School/University announcement/career counselor
Organizational third party referral diversity or community organization, church, unemployment office, etc.
Newspaper print or online
Radio
Transit/Bus Advertisement
Banner Advertisement - Major News Websites
Banner Advertisement-Movie Theater Websites
IRS Post Card Mailing
Classified Advertisement Website, Craigslist, Angies List, etc.
IRS/FNS Hiring Event
Other
I prefer not to answer
15. If you answered "Posting on a job board or search agent other than USAJOBS (Monster, CareerBuilder, Indeed, LinkUp, etc." in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the job board or search agent other than USAJOBS you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Social Media posting (Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, on-line job fairs, etc.)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the Social Media platform you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Attended a recruitment event (Job/Career Fair, Open House, Meet & Greet, Meetup, etc.)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name and state of the recruiting event.

If you answered "School/University announcement/career counselor" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the school/university of the announcement where you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Third party referral, such as diversity or community organization, or employment office (Federal, state or local)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the third party referral and the state you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Newspaper (print/online)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the newspaper and the state you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Radio" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the radio station and state you heard the advertisement.

If you answered "Transit/Bus Advertisement" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the city and state you saw the advertisement.

If you answered "Banner Advertisement - Major News Websites" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the website.

If you answered "Banner Advertisement - Movie Theater Websites" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the website.

If you answered "Classified Advertisement Website (Craigslist, Angie's List, etc.)" in the previous question, please indicate in the box below the name of the website, city and state.

If you answered "Other" in the previous question, please specify in the box below.
16. Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
-OR-
Are you a current or former political Schedule A, Schedule C, or an individual who serves or served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
-OR-
Are you a current or former noncareer SES appointee, or an individual who serves or served in a political capacity under Limited Term SES or Limited Emergency SES appointment in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
17. If yes, identify the position held, the employing agency/organization, and the dates of the appointment. Please provide SF-50s showing your political appointment and, if applicable, resignation/termination SF-50.
18. For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement? An official transcript will be required if you are selected.
 A. Yes
 B. No
19. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above
20. Applicants must meet the minimum age requirements for this position. Please indicate the option which best describes your current status. If you are 16 or 17 years of age, you MUST submit documentation of graduation from high school (or equivalent); OR completion of a formal vocational training program; OR statement from school authorities agreeing with your decision to pursue employment rather than continuing your education.
 A. I am 18 years of age or older.
 B. I am 16 or 17 years of age and have graduated from high school or have been awarded a certificate equivalent to graduating from high school.
 C. I am 16 or 17 years of age and have completed a formal vocational training program.
 D. I am 16 or 17 years of age and have a statement from school authorities agreeing with my decision to pursue employment rather than continuing my education.
 E. I am 16 or 17 years of age and am currently enrolled in high school (a student).
 F. I am under 16 years of age.
21. Were you referred by a current IRS employee to this job announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
22. Please provide the name of the current IRS employee that referred you to this announcement. If not applicable type N/A.
Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:  
BASIC REQUIREMENTS (ALL GRADES):
A degree in Engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. OR

A combination of education and experience that includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering.

The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT)1, or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions.
2. Written Test -- Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE)2 examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
3. Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in the basic requirements as indicated above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described above.
4. Related curriculum -- Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor's degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.)

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-14 LEVEL: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes experience that is related to the work of this position and has provided you with the competencies required for successful job performance. Qualifying experience is having the mastery knowledge and technical experience of fundamental principles of professional engineering and scientific disciplines research, design, development integrated computer hardware/software information systems; expert experience of systems design principles and development methodologies; experience with information systems practices in areas such as applications development, systems integration, telecommunications, database management, security, and software engineering.
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.

1.

BASIC REQUIREMENTS (ALL GRADES):
A degree in Engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. OR

A combination of education and experience that includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering.

The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT)1, or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions.
2. Written Test -- Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE)2 examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
3. Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in the basic requirements as indicated above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described above.
4. Related curriculum -- Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor's degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.)


Based on the information above, please select the level of education and/or experience that you fully possess:

 A. I have a degree in Engineering as described above.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience demonstrated by a current Professional registration, or licensure as described above.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience demonstrated by successfully passing a written test as described above.
 D. I have a combination of education and experience demonstrated by the successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical and engineering sciences as described above.
 E. I have a combination of education and experience demonstrated by the successful completion of curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field as described above and may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor’s degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance.
 F. I have none of the above choices.
2. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-14 LEVEL: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes experience that is related to the work of this position and has provided you with the competencies required for successful job performance. Qualifying experience is having the mastery knowledge and technical experience of fundamental principles of professional engineering and scientific disciplines research, design, development integrated computer hardware/software information systems; expert experience of systems design principles and development methodologies; experience with information systems practices in areas such as applications development, systems integration, telecommunications, database management, security, and software engineering.

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 A. I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 B. I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
3. Please select the response(s) that describe your experience with written communication in leading a team on a project or major task.
 A. Perform alternative analyses utilizing industry standard assessment criteria to determine which COTS products (or custom development) can meet specific project requirements and/or common enterprise needs.
 B. Develop IT design and operations guidance, documents, and policies.
 C. Initiate and develop engineering models, operational studies and tests of interoperability among a wide variety of IS components.
 D. Create and deliver solution concepts and system prototypes, including proof-of-concept for major IT systems.
 E. None of the above.
4. Please select the response(s) that describe your experience with verbal communication leading a team on a project or major task.
 A. Justify recommendations on major IT agency-wide projects.
 B. Advise others who must make decisions about IT on software and hardware projects, but are not computer engineering experts.
 C. Provide technical advice and counsel to executive level managers on major IT issues.
 D. Negotiate and resolve controversial and important IT issues at the highest level within the agency/organization.
 E. None of the above.
5. Please select the response(s) that describe your experience with Customer Service leading a team on a project or major task.

 A. Coordinate with information technology architects, other systems developers and functional areas to ensure information systems are properly integrated into the target architecture and transition plans.
 B. Propose system designs against technical standards and/or enterprise architecture for implementation in operating environment agency wide.
 C. Consult and collaborate with international experts from industry and government to develop IT policies and directions.
 D. None of the above.
6. Please select the response(s) that describe your experience in leading a team on a project or major task.

 A. Evaluate existing software/hardware system designs.
 B. Make extensive modifications and upgrades to existing systems considering changing requirements and interfaces, advances in technology, and evolving standards.
 C. Serve as a recognized expert in providing advice and counsel to executive level managers, information technology architects, other systems developers, and functional areas on major technical IT issues.
 D. None of the above.
7. Which Programming Languages do you have experience with to develop and deliver applications to production.
 A. C++
 B. C#
 C. HTML5
 D. Java
 E. Java Script
 F. Node.js
 G. Perl [1]8. PHP [4]9. Python [1]10. Other Languages [0]1A. None of the above
 H. None of the above
8. Which programming frameworks do you have experience with to develop and deliver applications to production?

 A. Hibernate
 B. Spring Batch
 C. Spring MVC
 D. Struts 2
 E. Other Frameworks
 F. None of the above
9. Which Programming Languages do you have experience with to develop and deliver procedures, functions, packages, triggers in such databases as Oracle, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, DB2, Sybase?

 A. PL/SQL
 B. PL/pgSQL
 C. SQL PL
 D. TransactSQL
 E. Other languages
 F. None of the above
10. Which software packages you have experience with to deliver quantitative models to process data greater than 1TB using such languages as Java. C, Python?

 A. MATLAB
 B. "R"
 C. SAS
 D. Other Packages
 E. None of the above
11. Which technologies do you have experience with when creating web services?

 A. JBOSS SOAP
 B. RESTFul
 C. WSDL
 D. webMethods Flow
 E. XML
 F. Other Technologies
 G. None of the above
12. Which data reporting and analytics tools do you have experience with?

 A. Business Objects
 B. IBM Cognos Analytics
 C. Qlik View
 D. SAP Business Intelligence
 E. Tableau
 F. Other tools
 G. None of the above
13. Which Enterprise Content Management tools do you have experience with?

 A. DocuShare
 B. Entellitrak
 C. IBM FileNet
 D. Nuxeo
 E. Oracle WebCenter
 F. Other tools
 G. None of the above
14. Which Business Rules Management Systems do you have experience with?

 A. Blaze Advisor
 B. Drools
 C. Oracle Policy Automation
 D. Other tools
 E. None of the above
15. Which cloud computing services do you have experience with?

 A. Amazon Web Services (AWS)
 B. Azure
 C. Google Cloud
 D. IBM Cloud
 E. Other Services
 F. None of the above
16. Which statement best describes your role/experience with DevOps?

 A. Performed duties of a DevOps Architect.
 B. Perform duties of a DevOps Engineer.
 C. Perform duties of a Software Engineer.
 D. None of the above
17. Which statement describes your experience leading a team on a project or major task doing the following?
 A. Data modeling
 B. ETL
 C. Implementing “In Memory Data Grid” (IMDG) systems
 D. Processing of both structured and unstructured data greater than 1TB.
 E. None of the above
18. Which of the following IT areas do you have experience leading a team on a project or major task?

 A. Systems Design
 B. Systems Integration
 C. COTS implementation
 D. Database Design
 E. Software Development
 F. None of the above
19. Which enterprise application platforms do you have experience with when leading a team on a project or major task developing and deploying applications?
 A. IBM WebSphere
 B. JBOSS
 C. SAP NetWeaver
 D. Other platforms
 E. None of the Above
20. Please select the response(s) that describe your experience with written communication in leading a team on a major program or project.

 A. Perform alternative analyses utilizing industry standard assessment criteria to determine which COTS products (or custom development) can meet specific project requirements and/or common enterprise needs.
 B. Develop IT design and operations guidance, documents, and policies.
 C. Initiate and develop engineering models, operational studies and tests of interoperability among a wide variety of IS components.
 D. Create and deliver solution concepts and system prototypes, including proof-of-concept for major IT systems.
 E. None of the above.
21. Please select the response(s) that describe your experience with verbal communication in leading a team on a major program or project.

 A. Justify recommendations on major IT agency-wide projects.
 B. Advise others who must make decisions about IT on software and hardware projects, but are not computer engineering experts.
 C. Provide technical advice and counsel to executive level managers on major IT issues.
 D. Negotiate and resolve controversial and important IT issues at the highest level within the agency/organization.
 E. None of the above.
22. Please select the response(s) that describe your experience with Customer Service in leading a team on a major program or project.

 A. Coordinate with information technology architects, other systems developers and functional areas to ensure information systems are properly integrated into the target architecture and transition plans.
 B. Propose system designs against technical standards and/or enterprise architecture for implementation in operating environment agency wide.
 C. Consult and collaborate with international experts from industry and government to develop IT policies and directions.
 D. None of the above.
23. Please select the response(s) that describe your experience in leading a team on a major program or project.
 A. Evaluate existing software/hardware system designs.
 B. Make extensive modifications and upgrades to existing systems considering changing requirements and interfaces, advances in technology, and evolving standards.
 C. Serve as a recognized expert in providing advice and counsel to executive level managers, information technology architects, other systems developers, and functional areas on major technical IT issues.
 D. None of the above.
24. Which of the following describes your experience performing the following functions related to the project management of design projects:

 A. Determined project scope and customer requirements
 B. Reviewed deliverables
 C. Established a project team with a team charter
 D. Established a written communication plan
 E. Developed and tracked a project budget
 F. Developed and maintained a project schedule using MSProject or equivalent scheduling software
 G. None of the above
25. Which of the following IT areas do you have experience leading a team on a major program or project?

 A. Systems Design
 B. Systems Integration
 C. COTS implementation
 D. Database Design
 E. Software Development
 F. None of the above
26. Which of the following platforms do you have engineering experience with?
 A. Palantir
 B. Pega
 C. Salesforce
 D. ServiceNow
 E. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
27. To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must list the month/year and number of hours worked for experience listed on your resume. Your resume must support your responses to the questions. Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination? .

Select "Yes" or "No" to the following questions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
28. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected