Position Title
MATERIALS EXAMINER AND IDENTIFIER (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12814110-AR-25-236 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 22, 2025 to Friday, November 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (USPFO) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (USPFO) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E3-E7)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-6912-07 Material Examiner and Identifier.
 I HAVE experience or training which demonstrates 1) my ability to distinguish between closely related or similar items, 2) my ability to follow procedures, 3) my ability to sort materials by type, and 4) my skill in the use of hand tools. .
 I DO NOT HAVE the above listed experience or training.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-6912-07 Materials Examiner and Identifier.
 I HAVE 1) at least 12 months experience which demonstrates my ability 1) in identifying and sorting a variety of complex materials and equipment, 2) in receiving materials and equipment, recording, and placing items in proper storage areas, 3) in preparing items for shipment using appropriate agency instructions, 4) in mathematical equations, 5) in interpreting and using Federal Supply Catalogs, military and manufacturing catalogs, and technical and agency manuals, and 6) using and operating forklifts and motor vehicles.
 I DO NOT have at least 12 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙