Position Title
Trial Attorney (Admiralty), GS-0905-14
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20250416-63998-36603-CA-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 21, 2025 to Friday, July 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Trial Attorney (Admiralty), GS-0905-14 position with the U. S. Coast Guard.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education/experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Trial Attorney (Admiralty) work at the GS-14 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service or private sector.  You must meet the following requirements to be considered:
Education:
Possess a professional law degree (LL.B. or JD) from an accredited ABA institution;
Bar Membership:
Possess an active membership in good standing of the bar of a state, territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia. (Note: proof of bar membership will be required at the time of application submission.);
AND
Specialized Experience:
Possess one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-13 grade level or pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector. Specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1) Litigate a wide array of complex cases in nature including but not limited to: highly scientific, expert witnesses, medical testimonies, fatalities, and property damage; 2) Draft comprehensive and succinct pleadings, motions, interrogatories, rulings, decision and interpret laws/precedents for difficult and novel issues; 3) Conduct legal research, investigation and negotiation, and provide legal advice, opinions, recommendations and legal memoranda in conjunction with cases pending administrative hearings, trials and/or appellate courts; and 4) Coordinate with internal and external stakeholders on legal matters.
 A. Yes, I possess the education, bar membership and experience performing duties listed above.
 B. No, I do not possess the education, bar membership and experience listed in the above statements.
2. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected