Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Human Resources Development)
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
HRR-KR-12770857-25-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 28, 2025 to Friday, August 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current United States Secret Service employee in the competitive service?

To verify eligibility, as a CURRENT Secret Service Employee you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50); and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, include promotions and with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Miami, FL
 D. Tampa, FL
 E. Atlanta, GA
 F. Chicago, IL
 G. Nashville, TN
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
2. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
3. I understand that the comprehensive background investigation will examine my use of alcohol and illegal drugs.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Human Resources Development) position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the specialized experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Human Resources Development) at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS- 13 grade level in the Federal Service which includes conducting research or program evaluation studies to improve operational functions of major programs, applying federal and agency policies, laws, and regulations governing the recruitment, selection, promotion, or training of personnel, designing and administering agency-specific training modules for major programs such as test administrator protocols and/or assessment administration, managing human capital programs and providing consultation to senior level managers to help inform critical human capital decisions and planning and leading the work of teams to manage day-to-operations.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
2. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience assisting managers and/or senior staff on complex issues that may impact the organization.
 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have performed this task and/or I have trained others in performance of this task and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
3. From the list below, select all of the situations in which you have interpreted complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance.
 A. To manage programs
 B. To implement programs
 C. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations
 D. To decide on continuation or termination of programs
 E. To make recommendations to senior agency officials
 F. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives
 G. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program
 H. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency
 I. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials)
 J. None of the above
4. From the list below, select all of the levels of strategic or long-range planning with which you have experience.
 A. Established, developed and/ or implemented the strategic planning process for an agency or corporation (executive management level).
 B. Established, developed and/ or implemented the strategic planning process for an office or division (mid to upper management-level).
 C. Established, developed and/ or implemented the strategic planning process for a front line organizational unit (middle management level).
 D. None of the above.
5. From the list below, select all of the statements that describe your ability to make timely and effective decisions and produce results through strategic planning and the implementation and evaluation of policies.
 A. Established and maintained liaison with senior officials.
 B. Coordinated with senior officials on policy and strategy matters.
 C. Recommended changes to policy to accommodate specific needs and requirements.
 D. Provided advice and guidance to senior officials regarding strategic planning, program evaluation and performance or statistical analysis.
 E. None of the above
6. From the list below select the statement that best reflects your level of experience performing program evaluations and/or organizational assessments?
 A. I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations.
 B. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues.
 C. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns.
 D. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others.
 E. None of the above.
7. From the list below select the response that best describes your level of experience reviewing program operations to determine the effectiveness of established plans and procedures.
 A. I have limited experience in performing this task.
 B. I have experience performing this task but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this task across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this task independently across a wide range of situations. I seek guidance in carrying out this task only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this task. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this task on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
8. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience examining complex functions and work processes to recommend solutions to deficiencies, imbalance or weaknesses in training requirements or projections.

 A. I have limited experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had exposure to this task but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this task across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this task independently across a wide range of situations. I seek guidance in carrying out this task only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this task. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this task on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work.
9. From the list below select the statement that best describes your responsible for HR assessment programs and projects for an agency or within segments of an agency (e.g., test administration programs, automated recruitment processes, etc.).
 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have monitored and reported the activities of HR assessment programs or projects.
 C. I have coordinated (e.g., collected information, prepared materials, etc.) the implementation of HR assessment programs or projects.
 D. I have managed (e.g., managed resources, timelines, work processes, personnel) HR assessment programs or projects and evaluated their impact.
 E. I have planned and developed (e.g., considered staffing, resources, logistics, regulations, etc.) HR assessment programs or projects.
10. From the list below select the statement that demonstrates the extent of your experience in conducting research in support of the human resources assessment and talent development functions.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others who were responsible for designing and conducting research in support of the human resources assessment and development function.
 C. I have been responsible for segments of one or more large research projects in support of the human resources assessment and development function.
 D. I have led one or more research projects in support of the human resources assessment and development function.
 E. I have directed a program of research in support of the human resources assessment and development function.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. Have you evaluated information to determine when new programs or changes in policy, procedures, or instruction of HR assessment programs are required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. From the list below select the statement that demonstrates the extent of your experience in developing surveys for human resources assessment initiatives.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others with the development of surveys for human resources assessment initiatives (for example, compiling or summarizing source material, writing individual survey items).
 C. I have independently developed surveys for human resources assessment initiatives.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience in conducting research in support of the human resources management function.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others who were responsible for designing and conducting research in support of the human resources management function.
 C. I have been responsible for segments of one or more larger research projects in support of the human resources management function.
 D. I have led one or more research projects in support of the human resources management function.
 E. I have directed a program of research in support of the human resources management function.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
14. Have you provided consultation and guidance to others on HR assessment related techniques, procedures, or policy?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience supervising a team of subordinate employees.

 A. I am responsible for supervising and/or leading a team of individuals and making recommendations to management on any conflict resolution or disciplinary issues that arise.
 B. I directly supervise and/or lead a team of individuals, guide their day-to-day operations, provide conflict resolution on administrative matters, and make recommendations to management on any disciplinary actions that need to be taken.
 C. I directly supervise and/or lead a team of individuals and am responsible for making decisions on technical administrative issues, independently provide conflict resolution on all administrative matters, and initiate disciplinary actions on subordinate employees.
 D. None of the above.
16. From the list below select all of the supervisory duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. Responsible for first line supervision of employees.
 D. Developed performance standards and evaluated employees’ work.
 E. Instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 F. Interviewed candidates for positions.
 G. Recommended individuals for appointment, promotion, and/or reassignment.
 H. Worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 I. Resolved office conflicts through mediation and/or other forms of alternative dispute resolution.
 J. Resolved office conflicts by providing written guidance.
 K. None of the above.
17. From the list below select the response(s) that best reflect the leadership functions you have performed for a project or program.
 A. Served as a supervisor, team leader, or project coordinator (formally, informally, in an acting or in a temporary capacity).
 B. Coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results.
 C. Evaluated the effectiveness of a complete project or program goal.
 D. Followed-up with colleagues, team members, and others to ensure timeliness in meeting milestones.
 E. Planned work assignments to be assigned to colleagues, team members, and others.
 F. Reported progress to senior management.
 G. Resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among colleagues, team members, and others.
 H. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness.
 I. None of the above
18. From the list below select the statement (s) that demonstrate your experience as a team leader or mentor.
 A. Setting expectations.
 B. Advising on tasks.
 C. Defining roles.
 D. Assigning responsibilities.
 E. Developing performance measurement criteria.
 F. Integrating schedules.
 G. Forecasting and setting milestones.
 H. Coordinating project resources issues.
 I. Participating in programming decisions.
 J. Monitoring progress.
 K. None of the above
19. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected