Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Direct Hire Authority)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NPS-IRA-25-12747064-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, June 25, 2025 to Wednesday, July 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
6
7
2. When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
You will not be considered for any eligibility you do not select. For all eligibilities selected, you must provide supporting documentation defined in the required documents section of the vacancy announcement to receive consideration. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions will affect your eligibility.
Assessment 1
Maximum Entry Age (MEA) (Selective Factor)
1. From the choices below select the response that best describes how you met the maximum age requirement for this position.

 A. I am under the age of 37 and will not exceed the age of 37 within 30 days of the closing date of this announcement.
 B. I am less than age 37 after subtracting the months of Permanent Federal Service worked in a primary or secondary firefighter/law enforcement position.
 C. I am a veteran preference eligible, older than age 37 and I am requesting a waiver to the maximum age requirement.
 D. None of the above responses apply to me. I do not meet the age requirement for this position.
NWCG Requirements (Selective Factor)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Have you successfully completed the Primary NWCG Core Requirements of Firefighter, Type 1 (FFT1), Helicopter Crewmember (HECM), Incident Commander Type 5 (ICT5), and NWCG Courses S-211 (Portable Pumps and Water), and S-212 - Wildland Fire Chainsaws? A copy of the Incident Qualification and Certification System (IQCS) Master Record (or equivalent training document) which contains documented proof certification or attainment of this requirement MUST BE ATTACHED to the application.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you successfully completed at least one season as a Fire Helicopter Crewmember? (Selective Factor)

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic requirements for a Wildland Firefighter GW-0456-06 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND TO BE NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS/GW-05 level. Examples include: Performed and directed others in starting pump engine, priming pump, adjusting engine speed and pump valves, laying hose appropriate nozzles and nozzle adjustment in effective use of water and foam application; Performed prescribed fire operations including preparation, ignition, monitoring, holding, and mop up; Evaluated initial fire situations, determining rate of spread, potential hazards to property and other improvements; Ensured the engine and fire equipment has been kept in full state of readiness for emergency dispatch.
 B. I do not meet the requirement described above.
5. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic requirements for a Wildland Firefighter GW-0456-07 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND TO BE NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS/GW-06 level. Examples include: Performed in Wildland hand-crew Fire Operations, to include initial attack and Fire-line Suppression Operations; Prescribed fire operations; Helitack Operations; lead other hand-crew members; initial attack and suppression hand-crew operations; prescribed fire operations; wildland fire engine crew operations; helitack fire crew operations; Provided on the job training and conducted daily crew briefings, safety sessions, and/or other basic wildland fire training.
 B. I do not meet the requirement described above.
6. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected