Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-ORS-DE-25-12789390 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces OR the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status or who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury?
If so, you may be eligible to be considered for a noncompetitive appointment.

Visit our NIH Jobs page for more information on eligibility and required documentation: https://hr.nih.gov/jobs/announcement-links/appointment-certain-military-spouses-eligibility

Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a noncompetitive appointment as a military spouse? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently a member of the United States Public Health Service (PHS) or a Call-to-Active Duty (CAD) candidate, and interested in performing the duties of this position within the Commissioned Corps (CC)? If so, we welcome you to apply to be considered for a PHS noncompetitive appointment (courtesy referral), and not as a candidate for conversion to a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.   
Required Documents: 
For Active Duty USPHS Commissioned Corps Officers: Submit your latest Personnel Order (PHS-7063). 
For USPHS Commissioned Corps Call-To-Active Duty (CAD) Candidates: In lieu of PHS Personnel Order (PHS-7063), submit an official copy of your USPHS CAD Medical and Processional Boarding notifications stating you are physically qualified and recommended for appointment.  
  
Visit our NIH Jobs page for more information on eligibility and required documentation:  https://hr.nih.gov/jobs/announcement-links/appointment-commissioned-corps-eligibility  
 
Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a noncompetitive appointment as a CC officer? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package before the announcement closes. 


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you been laid off or received a letter stating that you will be laid off from federal employment, or have your disability payments from your previous federal employment stopped? If so, you may be entitled to selection priority under the under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) or Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP). 

You must submit the following documents with your application:
copy of your current (or last) performance rating of record; and,
proof of ICTAP eligibility or proof of CTAP eligibility
Note: Your proof of eligibility MUST show the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were (or will be) separated and your full performance level or career ladder.  To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information along with your proof of ICTAP or CTAP eligibility.  

Visit our ICTAP or CTAP pages for more information on eligibility and required documentation. 

Based on the above and the referenced web pages, are you eligible for ICTAP or CTAP?  If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

Are you an individual with a documented intellectual, severe physical, or psychiatric disability that substantially limits one or more major life activities? If so, you may be eligible for employment through a Schedule A appointment. 

In order to be eligible, documentation of the disability is required. Documentation of eligibility for employment under Schedule A can be obtained from a licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional certified by a state, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory to practice medicine); a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (i.e., state or private); or any Federal agency, state agency, or agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits. The letter must include official office logo, stamp, or letterhead of a medical professional or it is invalid. Please visit OPM's website for sample letters. Learn more about Schedule A eligibility. 

Applying under "Schedule A" can be an expedited way to get a federal job, but it is only one of many options that may be available. You will still have to compete with other eligible applicants and meet all requirements of the position including the ability to perform the essential functions of the job with or without reasonable accommodations. 

Based on the above, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a Schedule A appointment? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

A. Yes

B. No

 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Other
1. Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 A. I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 B. I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 C. I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 D. I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 E. I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Emergency Management Specialist, position at our agency. For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience, training, or ability.
1. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for a Emergency Management Specialist, GS-0089-13, as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 A. I qualify for this position at the GS-13 level because I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal Service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: 1) developing, evaluating, and refining comprehensive emergency management programs (fire, hazardous materials, continuity of operations, biological/radiological incidents, and all-hazards plans) to ensure organizational preparedness and regulatory compliance; 2) representing the organization in high-level meetings, working groups, and emergency preparedness partnerships with federal, state, tribal, and local agencies; 3) managing large-scale emergency operations or complex incidents by applying National Incident Management System (NIMS) and Incident Command System (ICS) principles; 4) serving as Incident Commander for multi-hazard emergencies requiring significant coordination and decision-making; 5) conducting advanced hazard and risk assessments of chemical, biological, radiological, and other threats; and 6) ensuring organizational compliance with federal regulations, national standards, and internal directives governing fire protection, hazardous materials, emergency medical response, and continuity operations.
 B. My experience does not match the choice above.
2. As an applicant for federal employment, you are required to provide accurate, complete, and honest information. All applicants are treated fairly and equally, so it is important you know what is required of you. You must read this question, then certify your application. You will be disqualified from consideration for this position if you do not answer this question or do not certify your application. I understand that if I misrepresent or exaggerate my experience or education, or provide false, fraudulent, or misleading information in or with my application, it may be grounds for not hiring me, firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine, imprisonment, or debarment from federal employment. I understand that not following the information and instructions contained in the vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating, or me not being considered for certain eligibilities, preferences, grade levels, specialties, and other areas of the announcement that require me to provide information. Do you certify that you have read this statement and understand what is required of you, and certify that to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information included in your application is true, correct, and provided in good faith?
 A. Yes, I certify my application.
 B. No, I do not certify my application and understand I will therefore be disqualified from consideration.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected