Position Title
TAP Employment Readiness Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12788273 Opens in new window
Open Period
Saturday, August 23, 2025 to Friday, September 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for an FFSC TAP And Employment Readiness Specialist position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. All education and experience stated in answers must be reflected in resume and/or transcripts.
1. Which of the following do you possess?

 A. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position (General Human Resources, business administration and management, operations management, etc.).
 B. I have at least three (3) years of specialized experience with employment policies and transition assistance programs in support of the Department of Defense (DoD).
 C. I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience.
 D. I have no experience with the above.
2. How many years of experience do you have collaborating with various organizations to coordinate training events for service members and their families to provide information on available resources as a civilian, such as medical, dental, mental, financial, employment and career support?


 A. I have more than 5 years of experience with the above.
 B. I have 4 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 D. I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 E. I have no experience with the above.
3. How many years of experience do you have providing guidance to separating service and family members on resume development, interview techniques or salary negotiation?


 A. I have more than 5 years of experience with the above
 B. I have 4 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 D. I have less than 3 years of experience with the above
 E. I have no experience with the above.
4. How many years of experience do you have collecting information to report statistical material to a diverse audience?

 A. I have more than 4 years of experience with the above.
 B. I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have 2 to 3 years of experience with the above.
 D. I have less than 2 years of experience with the above.
 E. I have no experience with the above.
5. How many years of experience do you have networking with community organizations to seek volunteers?
 A. I have more than 4 years of experience with the above.
 B. I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have 2 to 3 years of experience with the above.
 D. I have less than 2 years of experience with the above.
 E. I have no experience with the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected