Position Title
PUBLIC AFFAIRS SPECIALIST T32
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
AZ-12786763-SW-25-108T Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current member of the Arizona Air National Guard?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you possess the rank of 2LT/O-1 to CPT/O-3?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you possess the AFSC of 35PX?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you possess a secret security clearance?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Must possess 1-year experience, education, or training equivalent to at least next lower grade level. Experience, education, or training involving a thorough knowledge of writing and communication principles, methods and techniques that relate to public affairs of the military. Experience developing new information materials including news releases, fact sheets, brochures, booklets, broadcast spots, etc., that increase communication with the agency's audiences. Experience making on-the-spot presentations to audiences with opposing points of view or erroneous understanding of agency positions. Experience responding timely and appropriately to requests for information concerning agency programs and services.

Do you meet the above qualification standard?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. The individual selected will receive an Indefinite Appointment and may be converted to permanent based on availability of funds or position no longer being encumbered.  

Please select the appropriate response for consideration.
 A. I have read and understand the terms as stated above and would like to be considered for the position.
 B. I have read and understand the terms as stated above and would not like to be considered for the position.
Assessment 1
Respond to all statements and questions. These statements and questions allow applicants to highlight their Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs) which are applicable to the position for which you are applying. If it is necessary to limit the number of applicants for a position, these KSAs will be used to determine the "Best Qualified".  For each KSA please identify below in the space provided how you have either demonstrated the KSA or have shown the potential to acquire them. Give specific examples describing related project, details, work assignments, outside activities, and the time frames involved in each. If you do not answer these statements and questions an accurate evaluation of your qualifications may not be possible. This may result in your application not being certified.

1. Knowledge and skills sufficient for determining appropriate information for internal/external publics respectively, and for using discretion in releasing controversial or secure material.
2. Skill in applying knowledges in the modification of standard methods and the adaptation of approaches in developing new information materials to enhance understanding and support of National Guard programs and/or significant issues.
3. Skills sufficient to provide print and broadcast media, trade associations, veteran's organizations, and National Guard associations with timely and accurate explanations of unit policies and activities.
4. Skills in developing and maintaining effective relationships with media representatives, unit assigned public affairs personnel and various external groups, to establish and enhance intercommunication between the National Guard and its audiences utilizing media resources.
5. Skills facilitating evaluation of information program effectiveness.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Must possess 1-year experience, education, or training equivalent to at least next lower grade level. Experience, education, or training involving a thorough knowledge of writing and communication principles, methods and techniques that relate to public affairs of the military. Experience developing new information materials including news releases, fact sheets, brochures, booklets, broadcast spots, etc., that increase communication with the agency's audiences. Experience making on-the-spot presentations to audiences with opposing points of view or erroneous understanding of agency positions. Experience responding timely and appropriately to requests for information concerning agency programs and services.

Do you meet the above qualification standard?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected