Position Title
Acupuncturist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTE-12825236-26-JB Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 27, 2025 to Monday, November 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Acupuncturists must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3j.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess one of the education requirements described below?

(1) Master's degree in acupuncture or oriental medicine from a program accredited by the Accreditation Commission fbr Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (ACAOM). OR

(2) Advanced level degree in acupuncture or oriental medicine from a program accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (ACAOM).

Graduates of foreign acupuncture programs meet the requirements in subparagraph 3b if they have a full unrestricted and current license to practice acupuncture in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice acupuncture in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you possess at least one of the requirements below to qualify at the GS-11 grade level for a full performance level Acupuncturist?

Doctoral degree or equivalent degree from an accredited college or university in an acupuncture or oriental medicine OR

At least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower GS-09 grade level, which is directly related to the position, specialized experience includes but is not limited to: serving as a member of an interdisciplinary team providing acupuncture treatment as well as further coordination of care for patients referred for acupuncture services, analyzing medical histories and physical findings to formulate a differential diagnosis based on oriental and westem medicine paradigms, designing and oversight of acupuncture treatment plans as well as a full range of acupuncture services, monitoring the accuracy of needle placement during a treatment, communicating with patients about any abnormal or unexpected results or responses to treatment and advising patients regarding lifestyle changes including nutrition, exercise, sleeping habits, stress management, mind body techniques and other matters.

 Yes
 No


5.
CERTIFICATION OF UNDERSTANDING: RESPONSE TO THIS STATEMENT IS MANDATORY.

Please note, if you do not answer this question, it will result in not being considered for this position. Select Yes or No to the statement below.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I
may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

FINAL INSTRUCTIONS - DOCUMENTS THAT MUST BE SUBMITTED AS PART OF THE APPLICATION PROCESS

Applicants must submit the following documents as part of the application process:

A resume/CV - must include the following information for each job listed: Job Title and Duties (be as detailed as possible), month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008), full-time or part-time (include hours worked per week) and Education (location, degree earned and date awarded) - Required.

Copy of college transcripts (unofficial or official) - Required.

Copy of license - Required.

Unrestricted driver's license - Required.

If you are claiming veterans' preference, please provide a copy of your DD-214 (We MUST have Member Copy #4 for July 1979 and later editions). If you are claiming 10 point veterans' preference, please submit the Application for 10 Point Veteran Preference (SF-15) with the required documentation. Applicants who are claiming veterans preference and do not submit the proper DD-214 will not be considered for veterans preference.

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your Resume. Be sure that your Resume/CV clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Forms may be obtained from the following web site - http://www.visn2.va.gov/hr/hrforms.asp.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙