Position Title
IT Specialist (Operating Systems)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAJ6-25-12755823-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 2, 2025 to Sunday, July 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Battle Creek, MI
 B. Whitehall, OH
 C. Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
 D. New Cumberland Defense Logistics Center, PA
 E. Philadelphia, PA
 F. Hill AFB, UT
 G. Fort Belvoir, VA
 H. Richmond, VA
3. Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 A. Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 B. I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 C. I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 D. No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.
4. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Performs continuing analysis and feasibility evaluations of software/hardware proposals, trends, and concepts in terms of validity in Service and Agency environments. Prepares portions of technical manuals defining software/hardware specifications, installation standards, applications program set up requirements, etc. for distribution to all user personnel. Conducts and/or extends research in advanced computer applications techniques, software/hardware system design concepts and logic, and software/hardware interactive control schemes where precedents are non-existent and there is very little guidance.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position.
In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. Carefully review the level descriptions listed below. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.
2. Define, guide, and support the execution of technical governance processes for an application platform.

 A. I have defined and supported technical governance processes for a single application.
 B. I have defined and supported technical governance for an application platform.
 C. I have defined, documented, supported, and guided the execution of technical governance processes for an application platform.
 D. None of the above.
3. Monitor the release of software updates and/or patches to an application platform in order to maintain or improve performance, security, and/or stability.

 A. I have had education and training related to this task.
 B. I have planned and monitored the release of software updates to a single system and assessed impact to performance, security, and stability.
 C. I have planned and monitored the release of software updates to an application platform and assessed impact to performance, security, and stability.
 D. None of the above.
4. Develop documentation, instruction, supplemental materials, or aids to guide users of an application platform.

 A. I have assisted with developing documentation, instruction, supplemental materials, or aids to guide users of an application platform.
 B. I have independently developed documentation, instruction, supplemental materials, or aids to guide users of an application platform.
 C. I have led the development of documentation, instruction, supplemental materials, or aids to guide users of an application platform.
 D. I have served as a reviewer or approver of documentation, instruction, supplemental materials, or aids to guide users of an application platform.
 E. None of the above.
5. Develop procedures to ensure hardware and/or software are managed in accordance with established policy.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have adhered to established procedures to ensure hardware and/or software is managed in accordance with established policy.
 C. I have contributed to the development of procedures to ensure hardware and/or software is managed in accordance with established policy.
 D. I have developed or led the development of procedures for ensuring hardware and/or software is managed in accordance with established policy.
 E. None of the above.
6. Which of the following project or program management functions have you performed in support of the IT life cycle process? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Developed Agile development plans
 B. Estimated resource requirements
 C. Prioritized development backlogs and defined milestones.
 D. Monitored project progress or resources
 E. Reported on accomplishments
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
7. Determine the interoperability of platform capabilities, software technologies and integrations to evaluate their usefulness, impact to upgradability, and viability with current platform applications.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have assisted in determining if software technologies are compatible with platform applications.
 C. I have independently determined if software technologies are compatible across platform applications.
 D. I have led teams to determine if software technologies are compatible with platform applications.
 E. None of the above.
8. Establish metrics and measures to be used for assessing and measuring impacts of platform implementations.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have assisted in the collection or compilation of metric information for use in assessments and measurements.
 C. I have established metrics for a single system for use in assessments and measurements.
 D. I have established metrics for multiple applications across a platform for use in assessments and measurements.
 E. I have established metrics for use in assessments and measurements across an enterprise application platform.
 F. None of the above.
9. Perform operational testing to minimize defects in an organization's software systems.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have assisted with operational testing processes to minimize defects in an organization’s software systems.
 C. I have independently performed operational testing processes to minimize defects in an organization’s software systems.
 D. I have led a team that performed operational testing processes to minimize defects in an organization’s software systems.
 E. None of the above.
10. Which of the following tests have you used to evaluate IT products or services? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Unit testing
 B. Integration testing
 C. Functional testing
 D. System testing
 E. Stress testing
 F. Performance testing
 G. Usability testing
 H. Acceptance testing
 I. Regression testing
 J. Assembly testing
 K. None of the above.
11. Back up and/or restore information systems to reduce loss of data and potential impact on operations.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have backed up or restored data for a single platform application.
 C. I have guided the implementation of a back up or restoration of data for multiple platform applications.
 D. I have guided or executed the implementation of a backup or restoration solution for an entire enterprise application platform.
 E. None of the above.
12. Guide the migration of data across IT systems, maintaining continuity and security of data during system upgrades.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have migrated data from a single system in preparation for a system upgrade or modification.
 C. I have migrated data from multiple systems in preparation for a system upgrade or modification.
 D. I have migrated data from enterprise-wide systems in preparation for a system upgrade or modification.
 E. I have developed an organization strategy for data migration in preparation for a system upgrade or modification.
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
13. Resolve urgent system performance issues to improve the functionality of IT systems.

 A. I have resolved urgent issues that affected a single system’s performance.
 B. I have resolved urgent issues that affected site-level or group-level system performance.
 C. I have resolved urgent issues that affected enterprise-level system performance.
 D. None of the above.
14. Which of the following items do you have experience configuring for an agency or organization? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Application platform capability
 B. Application platform security settings
 C. Application platform roles and permissions
 D. Settings for a single application.
 E. Virtual agent or other AI technology.
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
15. Manage the deployment of an application on a cloud-based platform.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have assisted with the deployment of an operating system or server.
 C. I have independently deployed an operating system or server.
 D. I have advised others regarding how to deploy an operating system or server.
 E. I have led a team that deployed an operating system or server.
 F. None of the above.
16. Develop standard procedures (SOPs)and User Interface guidance to apply standardization across an application platform

 A. I have used operating system SOPs and guidance to ensure standardization of a single application.
 B. I have assisted with developing operating system SOPs and user interface guidance to ensure platform applications have appropriate standardization.
 C. I have led the development of or independently developed a SOP and user interface guidance to ensure platform application systems are standard as appropriate.
 D. I have led the development of or independently developed an enterprise-level SOP and User Interface guidance to ensure appropriate uniformity.
 E. None of the above.
17. Diagnose issues with application platforms and develop solutions.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have diagnosed issues for single applications.
 C. I have diagnosed platform issues affecting platform applications.
 D. I have diagnosed issues affecting enterprise-level application platforms.
 E. None of the above.
18. Use monitoring tools to report on an application platform's performance.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have used monitoring tools to report on the performance of a single application
 C. I have used monitoring tools to report on the performance of several applications.
 D. I have used monitoring tools to report on the performance of an enterprise application platform.
 E. None of the above.
19. Which of the following technologies and frameworks do you have experience in supporting and/or practicing? (Select all that apply.)

 A. ERP Software
 B. Cloud-based software as a service (SaaS)
 C. ServiceNow
 D. Cloud-based platform as a service (PaaS)
 E. Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL)
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
20. From the list below, select the response which corresponds to the highest level of education you have achieved. Education claimed may be verified upon selection. If you do not possess or unable to provide proof of education claimed, you may be found ineligible.

 A. Less than 2 Years of College
 B. Associate’s Degree OR Two Years College (successfully completed at least 60 semester or 90 quarter hours)
 C. Bachelor’s Degree OR Four Years College (successfully completed at least 120 semester or 180 quarter hours)
 D. Master’s Degree OR Above
21. Have you received an honorary or monetary award from your employer (government civilian, military, or private sector) during the last 3 years?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected