Position Title
Motor Vehicle Operator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12829569 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 4, 2025 to Thursday, November 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Motor Vehicle Operator position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select from the below your ability to perform the work practices of a motor vehicle operator.
 Operated and performed preventive maintenance on one type of motor vehicle. Completed trip tickets, preventive maintenance records and accident reports. Oversaw loading and unloading cargo.
 Operated and performed preventive maintenance on two or more motor vehicles. Completed trip tickets, preventive maintenance records, and accident reports. Oversaw loading and unloading cargo.
 Operated and performed preventive maintenance on two or more motor vehicles. Completed trip tickets, preventive maintenance records, and accident reports. Oversaw loading and unloading cargo. Determined best loading practices to achieve load balance and protection for fragile items
 My experience and training is less than that described above.


2.
Do you have a current valid driver's license, and a state Commercial Drivers License (CDL) for the state of Virginia? (Proof must be uploaded to receive credit)
 Yes I have a valid Commercial Driver's License - Passenger (CDL-P) (Will need to attach a copy of the license to get credit.)
 No I do not have a valid Commercial Driver's License - Passenger (CDL-P)


3.
Must be skilled in handling the controls for starting, stopping, backing and driving the vehicle in a safe manner.
 I have performed these tasks independently with no issues for over 5 years.
 I have performed these tasks independently with no issues for less than 5 years but more than 3 years.
 I have performed these tasks independently with no issues for at least 3 years.
 I have performed these tasks independently with no issue for less than 3 years but a least 1 year.
 I have no experience.


4.
Ability to interpret instructions and specifications related to motor vehicle operations.
 Interpreted oral instructions or written work orders to operate two or more different types of motor vehicles. Read maps to determine route, taking details into consideration (overhead clearances, weight limits, etc.). Based on personal knowledge, selected alternate routes that gave the client the shortest and safest trip.
 Followed oral and written instructions to operate two or more different types of motor vehicles. Read maps to reach unfamiliar locations and selected alternate routes based on suggestions of others.
 Followed oral and written instructions to operate one type of motor vehicle. Read maps to reach unfamiliar locations and selected alternate routes based on suggestions of others.
 My experience and training is less than that described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙