Position Title
General Engineer
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLATrpSpt-25-12790668-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Tuesday, September 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
11
12
2. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
3. Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 A. Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 B. I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 C. I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 D. No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.
4. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. The purpose of this next question is to verify that you meet the basic requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE. *ALL APPLICANTS MUST PROVIDE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION TO SUPPORT THIS BASIC REQUIREMENT.

 A. I have a bachelor's degree or higher in professional engineering. The curriculum for this degree must have been gained through a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; or include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: a) statics, dynamics; b} strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; d} thermodynamics; e) electrical fields and circuits; f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and g) any other comparable areas of fundamental engineering science of physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with (1) - a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) - a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by professional registration or licensure, or Specified Academic Courses, or other related curriculum. (Note: Registration or licensure includes current registration as an Engineering Intern (El), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by and State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.)
 C. My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements
2. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. For the GS-7 level, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: In a developmental capacity serves as a professional General Engineer performing maintenance on Standardization documents. Determines and conducted analysis to determine suitability for item substitution. Prepares and maintains quality assurance programs in accordance with DLA and Supply chain guidance.
 B. For the GS-7 level, I possess one year of graduate-level education or superior academic achievement.
 C. For the GS-7 level, I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in B and C above.
 D. For the GS-9 level, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Executed all technical and administrative functions essential to the conduct of DSP. Conducted advanced research and development efforts for critical and high-cost items. Provided technical guidance and assistance. Knowledge of professional engineering concepts, principles and techniques.
 E. For the GS-9 level, I possess two years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master’s degree or master’s or equivalent graduate degree.
 F. For the GS-9 level, I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in D and E above, of superior academic achievement and one year of appropriate professional experience, OR successful completion of a 5-year program of study of at least 160 semester hours and one year of appropriate professional experience.
 G. For the GS-11 level, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Familiar with manufacturing process, quality assurance programs and supplemental guidance. Determined and conducted analysis to determine suitability for item substitution and provides recommendations to military services. Understanding of Federal and Agency Laws and/or Regulations.
 H. For the GS-11 level, I possess three (3) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I. For the GS-11 level, I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in G and H above.
 J. For the GS-12 level, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Performs technical analysis of the contract and technical data requirements relative to accuracy, clarity and completeness during test plans and final reports. Knowledge of industrial practices and process affecting testing of involved substances. Skills in calibrating and operating analytical physical instruments.
 K. I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected