Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
INV-JM-12791336-25-SS Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Thursday, September 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current United States Secret Service employee in the competitive service?

To verify eligibility, as a CURRENT Secret Service Employee you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50); and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, include promotions and with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Riverside, CA
 B. Santa Ana, CA
 C. Baton Rouge, LA
Conditions of Employment
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 A. Yes
 B. No
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
3. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Administrative Officer position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.

1. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Administrative Officer at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service which includes performing duties such as coordinating administrative office functions such as initiating personnel actions, procuring of office supplies and equipment, and managing property, space, and records effectively; developing various communications to include correspondence, memos, reports, and operating procedures; advising staff on administrative policies and procedures; utilizing a variety of office automated programs, applications, tools, and systems.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 C. I have specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentages of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal to at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 D. I have experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. From the list below, select the statements that describe your experience with administrative support duties.
 A. Managing, reviewing and coordinating procurement for office supplies, maintenance and equipment.
 B. Overseeing time and attendance records.
 C. Entering and retrieving data from data management systems.
 D. Maintaining property management records.
 E. Conducting inventories of accountable property.
 F. Preparing reports of lost, stolen, or damaged property.
 G. Coordinating training and developmental needs of staff.
 H. Serving as liaison between offices.
 I. None of the above.
3. From the list below, select all of the areas with which you have experience as they relate to the procurement of goods and/or services.
 A. Preparing and submitting procurement requests.
 B. Preparing procurement justifications.
 C. Tracking and ensuring the accuracy and quality of procured items and/or services.
 D. Reviewing and authenticating procurement requests submitted by others.
 E. Preparing and disseminating procedural procurement guidelines for use by others.
 F. None of the above
4. From the list below, select all of the types of property you have experience procuring and applying inventory control processes/procedures.
 A. Office supplies
 B. Office equipment
 C. Office furniture
 D. Computer hardware/software
 E. None of the above
5. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe your experience with planning and managing property (furniture, equipment, motor vehicles, computers, etc.).
 A. Assessing property needs.
 B. Participating in the development of contract specifications for property.
 C. Coordinating relocation activities.
 D. Surveying the market for product best suited for the need.
 E. Preparing requisitions for property purchases.
 F. Preparing requisitions for property maintenance and repair.
 G. Maintaining property management records.
 H. Conducting inventories of accountable property.
 I. Preparing reports of lost, stolen, or damaged property.
 J. None of the above
6. From the list below, select all of the statements that describe your experience working with budget data to assist in the preparation of budget estimates and justifications.
 A. I have collected data from multiple sources.
 B. I have compiled data into estimates of annual funding summary reports and schedules.
 C. I have monitored data reports to ensure accurate portrayal of funds.
 D. I have monitored data reports to take adjustment actions as necessary.
 E. I have made recommendations for improvements in the monitoring, tracking and reporting of funds and program obligations.
 F. I have assisted in the compilation of proposed budgets ensuring consistency with existing legislature and regulatory guidance.
 G. I have prepared information on proposed budgets that tie to program needs.
 H. I have limited experience preparing budget estimates and justifications.
 I. None of the above.
7. From the list below, select the system(s) you have experience using.
 A. Learning Management System (LMS)
 B. Master Central Index (MCI)
 C. National Crime Information Center (NCIC)
 D. Computerized Criminal History (CCH)
 E. Treasury Enforcement Communication System (TECS)
 F. WebTA
 G. HR Connect
 H. Financial Management Accounting System
 I. Oracle Federal Financial Systems
 J. Annams Sunflower Asset Management System
 K. None of the above.
8. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe your experience organizing, controlling and managing records and files.
 A. Implementing a pre-established, standardized document and records filing system.
 B. Establishing or revising a standardized document and records filing system that was adopted on an organization wide basis.
 C. Developing, establishing, and implementing a comprehensive records management and document filing system for use by your organization.
 D. Archiving and disposing of records in accordance with a set of established policies and/or regulations.
 E. Utilizing computer software, document imaging, or other document management (storage, retrieval, distribution) technologies in managing a large records system.
 F. None of the above
9. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe your experience performing administrative support functions.
 A. Providing guidance to employees on various rules, policies and regulations.
 B. Preparing, approving and auditing travel documents using federal travel regulations and automated systems.
 C. Performing tasks involved with federal budgeting.
 D. Organizing meetings/conferences that impact department operations.
 E. Assigning work to subordinates based on priorities, difficulty of assignment or current workload of employees.
 F. Overseeing administrative aspects of the development of the department?'s training activities.
 G. None of the above
10. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe your experience administering staff travel.
 A. Preparing, recording, and financing of travel authorizations.
 B. Making domestic travel reservations and arrangements.
 C. Making foreign travel reservations and arrangements.
 D. Reviewing and authorizing payment of travel claims/vouchers.
 E. Resolving errors in travel claims/vouchers submitted using automated voucher system(s).
 F. Applying domestic travel regulations and government rates and allowances.
 G. Applying foreign travel regulations/policies and government rates and allowances.
 H. None of the above
11. From the list below, select the areas with which you have provided advice to managers and employees in regards to policies and procedures.
 A. Human Resources
 B. Budget
 C. Finances
 D. Property
 E. Telecommunication
 F. Administrative
 G. Records management
 H. None of the above
12. Select the statement that best describes how you have communicated orally in a work environment.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have answered questions and provided routine facts in a work environment.
 C. I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others (for example, peers, supervisors) to obtain or verify information; or explained non-technical policies/procedures to others.
 D. I have answered questions from others or provided advice and technical guidance on matters that were often complex or controversial.
 E. I have given technical advice, briefings or presentations on highly complex technical, job-related matters.
13. From the list below select all response(s) that describe your experience in locating and compiling information for reports, briefings, or problem resolution.
 A. Gathering materials to be routed for information or to be distributed at recurring meetings.
 B. Compiling factual information from sources within assigned work area and presenting the information in a logical fashion.
 C. Collecting and retrieving information from various sources within the division or larger organization.
 D. Compiling relevant information and presenting it in a logical format that allows ease of interpretation by others.
 E. None of the above.
14. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected