Position Title
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY INVESTIGATOR
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
DHRADSSC-25-12790585-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 28, 2025 to Thursday, September 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a position with higher graded promotional potential than previously held?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Equal Opportunity Investigator, GS-1860-13 position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Read all of the statements below completely before making your selection.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-12) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Applying, laws and regulations to investigation work to develop new techniques, legal processes, approaches and detailed reports; Developing agency wide policies, procedures, and strategies for large-scale or multi-jurisdictional investigations both complex and sensitive; Providing technical advice, guidance, and recommendations to agency critical operations which change the interpretation of regulations, lead to new case law decisions, or influence the development and modification of significant policies or programs; Serving as a project manager throughout the investigative lifecycle to include; employment discrimination involving nationwide or international employers and issues resulting in decisions having a major impact on employment policies and practices (Experience must be reflected in resume).
 B. My experience is not reflected in the statements above.
2. I have expert knowledge of the legal framework in which the Equal Employment Opportunity program operates

 A. True
 B. False
3. Select the statement that best describes your experience applying equal opportunity and human resources laws, theories, concepts, and principles to provide management advisory and technical services.
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in equal opportunity and human resources laws, theories, concepts, and principles.
 B. Applying equal opportunity and human resources laws, theories, concepts, and principles to provide management advisory and technical services has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 C. I have applied equal opportunity and human resources laws, theories, concepts, and principles to provide management advisory and technical services on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. Applying equal opportunity and human resources laws, theories, concepts, and principles to provide management advisory and technical services has been a regular part of a job. I perform this task independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 E. I have reviewed equal opportunity and human resources laws, theories, concepts, and principles but have not yet provided management advisory and technical services in the performance of a job.
4. Select the statement that best describes your experience investigating EEO complaints and third-party resolution.

 A. Investigating EEO complaints and third-party resolution has been as a regular part of a job. I perform this task independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in investigating EEO complaints and third-party resolution but have not yet performed this task independently on the job.
 C. I have performed investigated EEO complaints and third-party resolution on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. Investigating EEO complaints and third-party resolutions has been a central or major part of my work. I perform this task routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 E. I have not had experience, education, or training in investigating EEO complaints and third-party resolution.
5. Of the following concepts, principles, and methods select all you have of a broad-spectrum knowledge to support agency mission. (Select all that apply)

 A. Federal Civilian Personnel
 B. DoD Civilian Personnel
 C. Federal Equal Employment Opportunity policies
 D. Agency instructions.
 E. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response)
6. I have documented experience planning and conducting independent investigations high profile, controversial and technically complex EEO discrimination complaints, grievances, and other unresolved dispute cases filed by employees.

 A. False
 B. True
7. Select the response that best describes your experience collecting or reviewing the work of agency specialists to identify, establish the relevant data, and facts and approaches taken in presenting the positions of the parties

 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 C. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 D. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 E. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
8. Select the response that best describes your experience analyzing information based on laws, regulations and/or policy.
 A. Analyzing information based on laws, regulations and/or policy is a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have completed formal education or training analyzing information based on laws, regulations and/or policy
 C. I have not had experience, education, or training analyzing information based on laws, regulations and/or policy
 D. Analyzing information based on laws, regulations and/or policy is a regular part of my job. I perform this duty independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 E. I have analyzed information based on laws, regulations and/or policy on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
9. Do you have documented experience determining the scope and most efficient method for conducting an investigation?

 A. No
 B. Yes
10. Of the following select all the statements that best represent your experience researching and reviewing decisions and guidance in the performance of a job. (Select all that apply)

 A. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC)
 B. Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB)
 C. Office of Personnel Management (OPM)
 D. State and Local laws
 E. Federal laws and regulations
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response)
11. Select the statement that best describes your experience obtaining sworn testimony through personal face-to-face interviews, fact finding conferences, telephone or video conference interviews and interrogatories.
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in obtaining sworn testimony through personal face-to-face interviews, fact finding conferences, telephone or video conference interviews and interrogatories
 B. I have obtained sworn testimony through personal face-to-face interviews, fact finding conferences, telephone or video conference interviews and interrogatories on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 C. I have participated on a team that obtained sworn testimony through personal face-to-face interviews, fact finding conferences, telephone or video conference interviews and interrogatories.
 D. Obtaining sworn testimony through personal face-to-face interviews, fact finding conferences, telephone or video conference interviews and interrogatories has been a regular part of my job. I perform this duty independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 E. Obtaining sworn testimony through personal face-to-face interviews, fact finding conferences, telephone or video conference interviews and interrogatories is a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
12. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience performing on a job. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have investigated complex charges of employment discrimination involving nationwide or international employers, and significant issues that resulted in decisions having an impact on employment policies and practices.
 B. I have routinely negotiated settlements or sought remedies through conciliation efforts involving important and significant employer policies and practices.
 C. I have experience investigating cases of multiple parties, or one or more classes of employees (e.g. class action) involving national employers or unions.
 D. I have documented experience initiating and facilitating settlement negotiation on disputed matters.
 E. I have extensive experience suggesting creative solutions to settle a case.
 F. I have continuously explored possible settlement options throughout an investigation.
 G. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response)
13. Please select the statement that best represents your experience investigating a broad range of cases that typically include resolving serious evidence problems, addressing critical organizational issues, or developing new concepts regarding case resolution.

 A. I have not had experience investigating a broad range of cases that typically include resolving serious evidence problems, addressing critical organizational issues, or developing new concepts regarding case resolution.
 B. I have investigated a broad range of cases that typically include resolving serious evidence problems, addressing critical organizational issues, or developing new concepts regarding case resolution on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 C. Investigating a broad range of cases that typically include resolving serious evidence problems, addressing critical organizational issues, or developing new concepts regarding case resolution has been a regular part of a job. I perform this task independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I have participated on a team that investigated a broad range of cases that typically include resolving serious evidence problems, addressing critical organizational issues, or developing new concepts regarding case resolution.
 E. Investigating a broad range of cases that typically include resolving serious evidence problems, addressing critical organizational issues, or developing new concepts regarding case resolution has been a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
14. Please select the statement that best represents your experience serving as a senior technical authority on difficult and complex issues to advise other experts on how best to resolve issues and interpret guidance

 A. I have not had experience serving as a senior technical authority on difficult and complex issues to advise other experts on how best to resolve issues and interpret guidance.
 B. I have served as a senior technical authority on difficult and complex issues to advise other experts on how best to resolve issues and interpret guidance on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 C. Serving as a senior technical authority on difficult and complex issues to advise other experts on how best to resolve issues and interpret guidance has been a regular part of a job. I perform this task independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 D. I have participated on a team of technical authorities for difficult and complex issues to advise others on how best to resolve issues and interpret guidance.
 E. Serving as a senior technical authority on difficult and complex issues to advise other experts on how best to resolve issues and interpret guidance has been a central or major part of my work and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
15. Please select the statement that best represents your experience providing alternative dispute resolution or mediation services on significant issues with a variety of activity/installation representatives, including senior management officials.

 A. I have not had experience providing alternative dispute resolution or mediation services on significant issues with a variety of activity/installation representatives, including senior management officials.
 B. Providing alternative dispute resolution or mediation services on significant issues with a variety of activity/installation representatives, including senior management officials has been a central or major part of my work and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 C. I have provided alternative dispute resolution or mediation services on significant issues with a variety of activity/installation representatives, including senior management officials. on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have assisted in providing alternative dispute resolution or mediation services on significant issues with a variety of activity/installation representatives, including senior management officials.
 E. Providing alternative dispute resolution or mediation services on significant issues with a variety of activity/installation representatives, including senior management officials has been a regular part of a job. I perform this task independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
16. From the following select all you have knowledge and/or skill in applying in human resources program regulations and program requirements. (Select all that apply)

 A. Knowledge of staffing and position classification.
 B. Knowledge of performance management and employee development.
 C. Knowledge of labor relations and adverse actions.
 D. Planned, organized, and conducted research of complex problems that involved major areas of uncertainty in approach, methodology, or interpretation to identify appropriate courses of action.
 E. Understood and identified the primary issues being raised in complaints
 F. Designed and conducted an investigation, determining the scope of and most effective approaches for conducting assigned investigations.
 G. Reviewed policy and procedures to ensure consistency in their application and recommend modifications.
 H. Coordinated with other Human Resources functions and/or higher agency levels.
 I. None of the above
17. Please select the statement that best represents your experience reviewing investigative files and reports prepared by investigators and performs quality reviews for other investigators.

 A. I have participated on a team that reviewed investigative files and reports prepared by investigators and performs quality reviews for other investigators.
 B. I have not had experience reviewing investigative files and reports prepared by investigators and performs quality reviews for other investigators.
 C. Reviews investigative files and reports prepared by contract investigators and performs quality reviews for other investigators has been a central or major part of my work and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 D. Reviews investigative files and reports prepared by investigators and performs quality reviews for other investigators has been a regular part of a job. I perform this task independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 E. I have reviewed investigative files and reports prepared by investigators and performs quality reviews for other investigators on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
18. I have documented experience managing a case assessment that includes in-depth reviews of agency policies, instructions, Official Personnel Folders and all other relevant files and information on the impacted complainant and the organization's workforce

 A. False
 B. True
19. From the following, select all you have knowledge and/or experience performing on a job. (Select all that apply)

 A. Made due process determinations including procedural, regulatory, and program violations on selected cases.
 B. Negotiated settlements or sought remedies through conciliation efforts involving important and significant employer policies and practices.
 C. Investigated cases of multiple parties, or one or more classes of employees ( e.g. class action) involving national employers or unions.
 D. Assessed potential impact and precedent-setting disputes before third-party authorities.
 E. Interpreted guidelines and regulations within a program area, where accepted methods and principles are questioned or challenged.
 F. None of the above
20. From the following list of communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied. (Select all that apply)

 A. Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff.
 D. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 E. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals.
 F. Organizes work, sets priorities, and determines resource requirements.
 G. Implements and/or utilizes strategic plans on a daily basis.
 H. None of the above
21. Please select the response that best describes your experience communicating with all levels of management presenting delicate positions on controversial or sensitive matters in a professional manner to support the mission.

 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 C. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 D. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 E. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
22. I have a high degree of originality, resourcefulness and diplomacy, as required to deal effectively with the range of responsibilities and diverse organizations and individuals

 A. True
 B. False
23. Of the following statements select all you have documented experience applying in the performance of a job. (Select all that apply)
 A. Prepared and delivered training including the most complex or emerging laws, regulations, or issues impacting EEO complaints management programs.
 B. Influenced and persuaded others to gain compliance with policies, obtain resources and implement training courses of action.
 C. Participated and represented agency in conferences/meetings that require extensive preparation to exchange information, evaluate/coordinate projects, defend actions, propose controversial solutions and discuss/resolve issues.
 D. Reviewed complex problems and prepared conflict resolutions to effectively resolve disputed matters and deal with complainants, attorneys, witnesses and managers/ supervisors/ senior executives.
 E. Briefed Flag level officers or SES managers at regional or headquarters levels, particularly when cases have become high profile and of potentially significant impact to Agency operations.
 F. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected