Position Title
Aviation Enforcement Agent
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
AMO-IMP-12803331-AGJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
2. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Detroit, MI
 B. Buffalo, NY
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. § 1997?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
8. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
9. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
10. This vacancy has a local commuting area requirement, as defined below:
The area surrounding the duty station by which people reasonably travel back and forth from home to work; Or
The employee's permanent duty station is located within the reasonable travel area surrounding the duty station of this vacancy; Or if applicable
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for less than 1 year) to another duty location, the permanent duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for more than 1 year) to another duty location, the detailed or temporary duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
Do you meet the local commuting area requirement?
 A. A. Yes, I meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
 B. B. No, I do not meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
11. Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Provisions of Public Laws 93-350 and 100-238 allow the imposition of a maximum age for initial appointment to a primary Law Enforcement Officer position within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In accordance with DHS Management Directive 251-03, the "day before an individual's 37th birthday" is the maximum age for original appointment to a position as a primary law enforcement officer within DHS. In accordance with Department of Homeland Security Directive 251-03, unless the below criteria applies, you must meet this age requirement by the date of referral to the hiring manager.

Creditable law enforcement officer service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8401(36) (as a Customs and Border Protection Officer) on or after July 6, 2008, may be applied toward the maximum age requirement. This age restriction may not apply if you are currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) law enforcement position covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).

Veterans Preference Eligibility: To ensure compliance with statutes pertaining to the appointment of preference eligible veterans as determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board in its recent decision of Isabella v. Dept. of State, the maximum age for original appointment articulated above shall not apply to the hiring of individuals entitled to veterans preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312. You must submit proof of Veteran's Preference (DD-214 Member 4 Copy) at the time of application.
Will you be less than 37 years of age at the closing date of this announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have creditable federal civilian (not military) service under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c), Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service on or after July 6, 2008 covered by Public Law 110-161 that may be applied toward the maximum age requirement.
 C. Not applicable. The age restriction does not apply to me because I am currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) position and the retirement covered under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
 D. Not Applicable. The age restriction does not apply because I am entitled to veterans’ preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312.
 E. No, I will not be less than 37 years of age at the closing date of this announcement and DO NOT meet any of the exceptions listed above. I understand that this will remove me from receiving further consideration under this announcement.
Assessment 1
The following questions will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1.
Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that included serving as a Tactical Communications Officer; operation of vehicles that require a commercial drivers license; serving as a primary law enforcement agent on AMO aircraft; operating technologically advanced systems such as laser systems, infrared detectors and radars to aid in detecting targets of interest; evaluating intelligence to determine aviation smuggling patterns; and writing concise, in-depth narrative reports to assist government prosecutors.
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience initiating and controlling law enforcement activities at the scene as arresting/seizing officer until suspects or property can be turned over to the appropriate enforcement representative.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience initiating and controlling law enforcement activities under close supervision or a senior employee.
 C. I have experience initiating and controlling law enforcement activities at a scene and as arresting/seizing officer until suspects or property can be turned over to the appropriate enforcement representative as a routine part of my duties.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience collecting, refining, or analyzing strategic and tactical intelligence to execute aviation enforcement operations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had training in how to perform this task but no actual experience carrying it out.
 C. I have assisted others responsible for performing this task by collecting relevant intelligence and information.
 D. I have had some experience, under direct supervision, collecting and analyzing strategic and tactical intelligence needed to execute aviation enforcement operations.
 E. I have had experience independently collecting, refining, and analyzing strategic and tactical intelligence needed to execute a variety of aviation enforcement operations.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience maintaining contacts in order to complete information exchanges and to obtain support in the course of interdiction events with the law enforcement and military communities in the United States and foreign countries.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had routine experience in developing relationships and maintaining contacts for information exchanges or to obtain support in the course of interdiction events with the law enforcement and military communities in the United States.
 C. I have had some experience in developing relationships and maintaining contacts for information exchanges or to obtain support in the course of interdiction events with the law enforcement and military communities in the United States.
 D. I have had extensive experience developing and maintaining contacts to complete information exchanges and to obtain support in the course of interdiction events with the law enforcement and military communities in the United States as well as in foreign countries.
5. Select the option that best describes your expereince using law enforcement and interdiction techniques to detect, interdict, apprehend, detain, and arrest suspected smugglers, potential terrorists, illegal contraband, and immigrants.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have some experience using law enforcement and interdiction techniques to detect, interdict, apprehend, detain, and arrest suspected smugglers, potential terrorists, illegal contraband, and immigrants gained from relevant training.
 C. I rountinely use law enforcement and interdiction techniques to detect, interdict, apprehend, detain, and arrest suspected smugglers, potential terrorists, illegal contraband and immigrants gained from on-the-job experience.
 D. I have extensive experience using law enforcement and interdiction techniques to detect, interdict, apprehend, detain, and arrest suspected smugglers, potential terrorists, illegal contraband, and immigrants gained from using each of these tasks as a routine part of my job.
6. Select the option that best describes your experience conducting airborne, waterborne, and ground-based surveillance.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been trained in procedures for conducting various types of surveillance but I have not had any actual experience doing so in the field.
 C. I have assisted others responsible for conducting airborne, waterborne, and ground-based surveillance.
 D. I have had some experience independently conducting one or more of these types of surveillance in the field.
 E. I have had extensive experience independently conducting one or more of these types of surveillance in the field.
7. Select the option that best describes your experience operating VHF, UHF, and satellite communications equipment.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have operated VHF, UHF, and satellite communications equipment to direct additional U.S. or foreign, law enforcement and military personnel and assets, to a point where an effective interdiction action can be made against a suspected smuggler.
 C. I have trained others in the use of VHF, UHF, and satellite communications equipment to direct additional U.S. or foreign, law enforcement and military personnel and assets, to a point where an effective interdiction action can be made against a suspected smuggler.
8. Select the option that best describes your experience commanding and controlling interdiction tactics and operations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have performed interdiction tactics and operations under the guidance of a supervisor or other senior individual.
 C. I have some experience independently commanding and controlling interdiction tactics and operations.
 D. I have extensive experience directing airborne, maritime, and/or land based law enforcement in performing joint interdictions during training and operations.
9. Do you have experience using land, maritime, or airborne tactical sensors and other detection devices/assets to detect targets of interest?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Have you had the responsibility for the safety of non-crew members on board your aircraft during tactical operations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate orally on a radio effectively while under stress.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have some experience communicating orally on a radio, but never under stressful conditions.
 C. I have routine experience communicating orally on a radio on a regular basis, which at times can be under stressful conditions.
 D. I have experience communicating orally on a radio under highly stressful conditions on a regular basis.
12. Have you testified under oath before grand jury, criminal and civil proceedings, and/or other domestic legal proceedings?

 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Select the option that best describes your experience in apprehending and detaining individuals suspected of violating applicable laws and regulations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had training related to apprehension and detention of suspected violators, but I have had little or no experience in applying these laws, regulations, or policies in a work setting.
 C. I have some experience arresting and detaining suspected violators while ensuring adherence to applicable laws, regulations, and policies.
 D. I have routine experience arresting and detaining suspected violators while ensuring adherence to applicable laws, regulations, and policies.
 E. I have extensive experience arresting and detaining suspected violators while ensuring adherence to applicable laws, regulations, and policies.
14. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of Federal laws, statutes, legal precedents, and judicial and administrative policies relating to the smuggling of contraband and human trafficking into the United States.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some training on the Federal laws, statutes, legal precedents, and judicial and administrative policies relating to the smuggling of contraband and human trafficking into the United States, but I have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have a general knowledge of the Federal laws, statutes, legal precedents, and judicial and administrative policies relating to the smuggling of contraband and human trafficking into the United States acquired through relevant training and some on-the-job experience.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of the Federal laws, statutes, legal precedents, and judicial and administrative policies relating to the smuggling of contraband and human trafficking into the United States acquired through relevant training and extensive on-the-job experience applying these laws, statutes, legal precedents, and judicial and administrative policies.
15. Select the choice that best describes your level of skill in working in or leading work-related teams.

 A. I have had no experience in working in or leading work-related teams.
 B. I have participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor, team leader, or a senior specialist.
 C. I have served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 D. I have led one or more teams, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines and evaluating individual team member performance.
 E. I have led large and integrated project teams consisting of members from multiple work units across my organization. I have assigned and overseen all project tasks, ensured that project goals and deadlines were met, and provided feedback to team members on their performance.
16. Select the choice that best describes your level of skill in directing other law enforcement or military aircraft, vessels, or vehicles to intercept aircraft, vessels, or vehicles suspected of terrorist activity or smuggling contraband or persons into or out of the United States.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others responsible for performing this task by researching and reporting relevant information.
 C. I have, under direct supervision, had some experience directing other law enforcement or military aircraft, vessels, or vehicles to intercept aircraft, vessels, or vehicles suspected of terrorist activity or smuggling contraband or persons into or out of the United States.
 D. I have been independently responsible, in numerous situations, for directing other law enforcement or military aircraft, vessels, or vehicles to intercept aircraft, vessels, or vehicles suspected of terrorist activity or smuggling contraband or persons into or out of the United States.
 E. I have had extensive experience actively directing other law enforcement or military aircraft, vessels, or vehicles to intercept aircraft, vessels, or vehicles suspected of terrorist activity or smuggling contraband or persons into or out of the United States.
17. Select the option that best describes your experience taking innovative actions to address new needs and issues.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have contributed to an innovative action addressing new needs or issues as a member of a group or problem solving team.
 C. I have independently taken innovative actions to address new needs and issues of moderate complexity. My peers have sought me out due to my expertise in generating innovative ideas to address complex problems.
 D. My superiors have consulted me for my expertise in taking innovative action to address highly complex, technical, or specialized matters. New policies, practices, or procedures have been implemented as a result of my ability to generate innovative strategies.
18. Indicate the extent of your experience developing and disseminating information to forecast smuggling trends.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others responsible for performing this task by gathering and collating relevant information.
 C. I have had some experience researching and developing information to forecast smuggling trends that was used by others.
 D. I have had extensive experience researching, developing, and disseminating information to forecast smuggling trends.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected