Position Title
Fitness Specialist - Fitness Center, PMRF
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25464 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 13, 2025 to Friday, July 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 A. Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 B. No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
2. I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of Navy (DoN); Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF); Fitness and Sports Program department at the Pacific Missile Range Facility (PMRF) in Barking Sands, HI. This questionnaire is a requirement for your application package and answers must be supported by your resume and/or additional documentation as necessary. The resume and supporting documents you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. Please ensure you read the questions thoroughly and review your responses for accuracy before you submit your assessment. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. This position is responsible for designing individual and/or group exercise programs as well as supervising, coaching and instructing exercise in or outside of the fitness facility. To sufficiently qualify for this position, you must have a high school diploma or equivalent, fitness instructor, personal trainer or certification from an accredited health/fitness organization and a professional competence in the physical activity program or area. Do you have all of the qualifications listed and did you submit the documentation with your application?
 A. Yes, I possess all the required elements to qualify for this position and I have submitted all documents with my application.
 B. Yes, I possess all the required elements to qualify, but I did not submit the documents with my application.
 C. No, I do not possess the required elements to qualify for this position.
2. Please select the response that more accurately describes how many years of experience you have planning and carrying out an enhanced program in the recreation specialty area which meets the needs of the participating community by conducting accurate fitness testing and recommending fitness programs based on fitness goals.
 A. I do not have any experience, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have at least 6 months of experience.
 C. I have at least 1 (one) year of experience.
 D. I have more than 2 years of experience.
3. The development and implementation of fitness classes must be unique and proper progression and specificity must be applied. This position requires interaction with a wide variety of patrons who seek physical fitness recommendations. Please select the response that most accurately describes your level of experience providing fitness training and programming to individuals and groups of various size.
 A. I have no knowledge or experience in this area, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have at least 6 months of experience in this area.
 C. I have at least 1 years of experience in this area.
 D. I have more than 2 years of experience in this area.
4. This position requires knowledge of safe use and operation of fitness equipment, facility operations and basic fitness equipment/repair. Please select the most accurate response that describes your experience and/or knowledge in this area.
 A. I do not have any experience in this area, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have at least 6 months of experience in this area.
 C. I have at least 1 (one) year of experience in this area.
 D. I have more than 2 years of experience in this area.
5. This position works under the direct supervision of the Fitness Director or Fitness Coordinator. Work is subject to periodic spot checks and incumbent uses initiative in completing daily/routine assignments and receives general guidance and supervision from their direct supervisor. You will come into contact with facility patrons, CFLs, co-workers, staff workers, DoD officials, command officials, security, police and vendors. Are you able to work as a member of a team to plan, implement and administer the recreation programs assigned to motivate all those involved in the program?
 A. I am able to work as a member of a team sometimes.
 B. Yes, I am able to work as a member of a team.
 C. No, I am not able to work as a member of a team.
6. This position requires knowledge of computer skills in Microsoft Office Programs, such as Word, Excel, Power Point and Outlook. You may also be required to administer computerized testing for customers. Please select the response that most accurately describes your level of knowledge and/or experience with using Microsoft Office Programs and computerized testing.
 A. I have more than 2 years of experience in this area.
 B. I have at least 1 (one) year of experience in this area.
 C. I have at least 6 months of knowledge and/or experience in this area.
 D. I do not have any knowledge and/or experience in this area.
7. If you have read the announcement in its entirety and uploaded all required documents with your application, please select option "B".
 A. Thank you for you interest in the Sports Specialist (Fitness) position with the Commander, Navy Region Hawaii.
 B. Please select this option.
 C. Do not select this option.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected