Position Title
Equipment Specialist (Direct Hire Authority)
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
FADHA-25-12766049-HM Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 22, 2025 to Friday, August 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
Announcement Questionnaire
1. My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I will provide copies of required documents by the closing date of this announcement. These documents establish my eligibility and qualifications for this position. Examples: SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action (non-award); DD-214 for VEOA consideration; transcripts if applicable.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. My resume contains hours worked per week for each position and/or season of experience held. I understand that failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents (SF-50 or other official document to verify date of birth), transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Equipment Specialist position with the Bureau of Land Management, Fire & Aviation Directorate, Division of Fire Operations, Equipment Development Program with the National Interagency Fire Center (NIFC) in Boise, Idaho. Please review your responses for accuracy PRIOR to the submission of your questionnaire responses.
1. I qualify for the GW-09 level because:
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-07 level in the Federal Service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.
 B. I have completed 2 years of graduate education leading to a master`s degree in a directly related field.
 C. I have 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree.
 D. I have an equivalent combination of the type and level of experience and education described in the vacancy announcement. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position. I will submit a copy of my transcripts if I am using education to qualify at this grade level.
 E. I do not qualify for this position.
2. I qualify for the GW-11 level because:
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-09 level in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.
 B. I have completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 years of graduate education leading to such a degree in a directly related field.
 C. I have an equivalent combination of the type and level of experience and education described in the vacancy announcement. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position. I will submit a copy of my transcripts if I am using education to qualify at this grade level.
 D. I do not qualify for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. The incumbent of this position is required to possess and maintain a valid state commercial driver's license (CDL) to operate heavy straight vehicles OR combination vehicles of 26,001 or more pounds. Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Select the statement that best describes your training and experience in the operation, inspection, and maintenance of wildland fire engines, support vehicles and other related fire equipment.
 A. These tasks have been a central or major part of my job. I have routinely performed these tasks and I have trained others in the performance of these tasks and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks.
 B. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of a job. I have performed these tasks independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have professional knowledge of these tasks on the job. My work in these tasks was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have completed education or training in these tasks but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 E. I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
5. Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience with the development, evaluation, manufacture, procurement, inspection, utilization, and maintenance of fire equipment, including engines,  water tenders, crew support vehicles, and firing equipment.
 A. I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
 B. I have completed education or training in these tasks but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 C. I have professional knowledge of these tasks on the job. My work in these tasks was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of a job. I have performed these tasks independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. These tasks have been a central or major part of my job. I have routinely performed these tasks and I have trained others in the performance of these tasks and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks.
6. Select the statement that best describes your experience in performing national program reviews for a large agency.
 A. I have served as a member of a national program review team responsible for conducting on site reviews of field offices and providing recommendations to address deficiencies in operations and program management.
 B. I have served as a member of a state program review team responsible for conducting on site reviews of field offices and providing recommendations to address deficiencies in operations and program management.
 C. I have reviewed written program evaluation reports and provided feedback to management.
 D. I am familiar with the process but my involvement included being reviewed by an inspection team.
 E. I have no experience in this area.
7. Select the statement that best describes your experience using written and oral communications to convey technical information and messages to interagency fire personnel, and senior management at local, state, and national levels.
 A. I have not had experience performing this task.
 B. I have limited experience conveying technical information and messages to interagency fire personnel and senior management officials at this level. Limited is defined as being performed on an infrequent basis, normally less than 3-4 times per year.
 C. I have a moderate level of experience conveying technical information and messages to interagency fire personnel and senior management officials at this level. Moderate is defined as being performed on an occasional basis, normally monthly.
 D. I have extensive experience conveying technical information and messages to interagency fire personnel and senior management officials at this level. Extensive is defined as being performed on a frequent basis, normally daily or weekly.
8. Select the statement that best describes your experience with office computer software.
 A. I use and am proficient in the use of a variety of office computer software, to include most the features in word processing, spreadsheet, and other applications.
 B. I use and am proficient in the use of most of the features in one to two basic office computer software, such as in word processing, spreadsheet, and other applications.
 C. I use and am proficient in the use of most features associated with a word processing software application (e.g., mail merge, tables, database sorting, etc.).
 D. I use a word processing software application for basic typing.
 E. I have little to no experience with office computer software.
9. Which of the following statements best describes your ability to complete routine or procedural tasks.
 A. I am organized, and thrive on maintaining accurate, up to date and properly documented files and records. I am effective in completing routine or monotonous tasks.
 B. I am organized and complete my work even if many of the tasks are routine and require a significant attention to detail.
 C. I complete work that is assigned to me; however, I rely on my supervisor to provide me with daily direction.
 D. I have difficulty remaining focused on routine tasks that present little to no challenge.
10. Select the statement that best describes your experience analyzing motor vehicle operational or performance problems.
 A. I am consulted to analyze vehicle operational or equipment problems and provide timely, sound, and cost-effective advice.
 B. I have researched information from other sources to determine the nature of a vehicle problem and made decisions based on that information. I have communicated this information with appropriate personnel.
 C. I have provided vehicle operations analysis with assistance from contacts at facilities having the expertise to address operational or performance problems.
 D. I have not performed this kind of work.
11. Indicate the statement that best describes your ability to develop, implement and evaluate fire training products, policies, and procedures.
 A. I have developed, implemented and evaluated fire training products, policies, and procedures at the national level.
 B. I have developed, implemented and evaluated fire training products, policies, and procedures at the state level.
 C. I have developed, implemented and evaluated fire training products, policies, and procedures at the local level.
 D. I have experience organizing training programs and developing training policies and procedures.
 E. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
12. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected