Position Title
Deputy Assistant Commissioner Fiscal Accounting
Agency
Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Announcement Number
25-FS-SES005 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you an SES competitive eligible (not yet appointed into the SES)?  Such applicants must demonstrate one year of progressively responsible leadership experience that is indicative of senior executive level managerial capability and directly related to the skills and abilities outlined under the Executive Core Qualifications and Technical Qualifications to be qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current Fiscal Service employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you an SES non-competitive eligible applicants who fall into one of the following categories? 
Current Career Senior Executive Service members
Former Career SES Reinstatement eligible applicants
Graduates of an OPM-certified SES Candidate Development Program (CDP)
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Hyattsville, MD
 C. Parkersburg, WV
2. Do you have at least one year of progressively responsible leadership experience that is indicative of senior executive level managerial capability and directly related to the skills and abilities outlined under the Executive Core Qualifications and Technical Qualifications?
 A. Yes
 B. No
REMINDER: Please ensure that you submit Executive Core Qualification (ECQ) and Mandatory Technical Qualification (MTQ) responses.

NOTE: While MTQ responses are required for all applicants, ECQ submissions are not required for applicants who are currently in the SES, former career SES appointees who are eligible for career reinstatement in the SES, or graduates of an SES Candidate Development Program who have been certified by OPM.
3. This vacancy is open to all groups of individuals within the Federal civil service, along with SES CDP graduates and former SES members with reinstatement eligibility. Please select the option below that reflects your employment status:
 A. I am a current Federal Civil Service Employee (includes competitive and excepted service positions in the executive, judicial, and legislative branches, except positions in the uniformed services)
 B. I am a former career SES member with reinstatement eligibility
 C. I have graduated from an OPM approved SES Candidate Development Program
 D. None of the above
4. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected