Position Title
Electronics Engineer
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
TEC-JA-12794038-25-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 22, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND meet one (1) of the following?
Retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30% or more; or
Rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) or have a disability determination from a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more.
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent); AND
Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating of at least 30% or more (NOTE: overall percentage must be clearly shown);
 SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 6)
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the spouse's active-duty status (i.e., spouse's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) or Active Duty military orders, or official documentation from the Armed Forces branch that verifies spouse's active status). Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) extends the temporary provision in which spouses are not required to relocate with active-duty service members on PCS orders. The sunset date of this provision is December 31, 2028.
-OR-

Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100%, or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the spouse's military service (i.e., DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent); and
Verification of the service member's 100% disability (i.e., Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying the overall compensable service-connected disability rating of 100%) NOTE: The overall percentage must be clearly shown; and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 7; 7a and Page 2 - Answer questions 1-7)
-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces who was killed while in active-duty status?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the member's death while on active duty (i.e., DD-1300, Report of Casualty or equivalent); and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 8; 8a/8b)
NOTE: A spouse is not eligible if not married to the veteran at the time of death or have since remarried.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who has never held the highest grade level (or equivalent) for the position is being announced?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
The highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50) and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Actions, SF-50, include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who currently holds or has previously held the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential (or equivalent) for the position being announced?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50)
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm the following:  
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which will be or were separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which will be or were separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, notice of (proposed) removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside the local commuting area (e.g., a directed reassignment or a change in duty station), notice of compensable work-related injury or illness termination and agency certification of inability to place, or notice of disability annuity termination; AND
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; AND
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee on a time-limited appointment in the competitive service of a Land Management agency? If yes, confirm the following:

As a current/former employee of a Land Management Agency you MUST work or have worked for one the following:
The Department of Agriculture's Forest Service; or
The Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Reclamation.
AND
Are/were on a temporary or term appointment (time-limited) in the competitive service; and
Worked for a land management agency under one (1) or more time-limited appointments for a period or periods totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years; and
Received acceptable performance ratings during each period of service.
Note:  Former land management employees most recent separation must be for reasons other than misconduct or performance AND must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
ALL Appointment AND Resignation/Termination, SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), totaling more than 24 months that reflects all the following:
Temporary or Term appointment (Tenure Code is "0" or "3" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34)
Performance appraisal showing the official rating of record and signed by a supervisor, for each qualifying period of temporary or term appointment; or, if one is unavailable, provide a statement of performance for each period of service. The statement must specify the dates for each employment period and level of performance (dates should match the dates on the SF-50s).
For more information review Land management, Land Management Eligible, and Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a current Federal employee in the excepted service and/or in other merit systems of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM)?  If yes, confirm the following:
Currently serving under an appointment that is not time-limited or have been involuntarily separated from such appointment without personal cause within the preceding year; and
Current serving in or have been involuntarily separated from a position covered by an interchange agreement; and 
Served continuously for at least one (1) year under the interchange agreement.
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.

-OR-

Are you a current Federal employee of a Federal Agency covered under other miscellaneous appointing authorities not regulated by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Other Miscellaneous Authorities include the following?
Postal Career Service Employees
Postal Rate Commission Employees
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employees
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employees
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify eligibility, you must submit your most recent, Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, and the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting eligibility under the OPM Interchange Agreement or Other Miscellaneous Authorities.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a FORMER competitive-service employee of the Federal Government OR veterans' preference eligible, including those with derived preference, who PREVIOUSLY HELD a career or career-conditional (non-time-limited) appointment?  

To verify eligibility, you must submit your most recent separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
A career appointment (Tenure Code is 1 in block 24) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); or
A career-conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 2 in block 24) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34)*; and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent separation SF-50)
If claiming veterans' preference with eligibility, you must submit the following:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service and/or
Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating of at least 30% or more (NOTE: overall percentage must be clearly shown); and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference 
*If you do not have veterans' preference or did not acquire career tenure, you are only eligible to be reinstated within 3 years after the date of your separation.

For more information review: Reinstatement Eligibility
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability or a psychiatric disability that qualifies for a Schedule A hiring authority?

To verify eligibility, you must submit a disability letter on official stationery/letterhead with an official signature. The letter should clearly state full name and that a person with a disability and are eligible for appointment under Schedule A hiring authority as outlined in 5 CFR Section 213.3102(u). Such documentation must be from one of the below sources:
A licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional duly certified by a State, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory, to practice medicine); or
A licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (State or private); or
Any Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.
A sample letter (PDF file) can be found on the OPM website.

For more information, review Individuals with Disabilities resources
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you a Veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and meet one (1) of the following?
Entitled to veterans' preference, including those with derived preference; or
A veteran separated or are expected to be separated within the next 120 days, from the armed forces after three (3) or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. Veterans who were released shortly before completing a 3-year tour are considered eligible.
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service; or
Future Military Retirees/Separatees submit a certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification*.
Disabled Veterans submit certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification* AND an official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating AND/OR SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C).
*This certification letter must indicate dates of active service, rank/grade, expected character of service (i.e., honorable or general) and type of separation (i.e., separation or retirement). Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

"Active service" defined in title 37, United States Code, means active duty in the uniformed services and includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, full-time National Guard duty, and attendance, while in the active service, at a school designated as a service school by law or by the Secretary of the military department concerned.

For more information, review Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Landover, MD
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Electronics Engineer position with United States Secret Service, Office of Technical Development and Applied Research. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application
1. This Electronics Engineer position has an Individual Occupational Requirement. Choose one answer that best describes your education.
 A. I have a bachelor's degree from a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 B. I have a bachelor's degree from a school of engineering that included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 C. I have a combination of college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that includes current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT) or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 D. I have a combination of college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that includes evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 E. I have a combination of college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that includes successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in the basic requirements under response option B above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in response option B above. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 F. I have a combination of college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that includes evidence of successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor?s degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 G. My experience and/or education is not reflected in the above statements.
2. From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes how you meet the qualification requirements for this position at the GS-14 level.

 A. I have at least one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-13 level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) performing the following duties; Leading engineering projects and technology programs, while researching, developing, and evaluating advanced technologies for detection, tracking, surveillance, and security systems.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the statement above and I do not qualify for this position.
3. Which statement best reflects your engineering experience?

 A. I have extensive experience applying engineering principles in both controlled environments (e.g. labs) and in the real-world field settings.
 B. I have direct experience applying engineering principles primarily in real-world field settings to solve practical problems with operators or clients.
 C. I have direct experience applying engineering principles primarily in controlled environments, such as labs or test facilities.
 D. I have limited experience applying engineering principles but am familiar with operating basic electrical equipment (i.e. spectral amplifier, power supply, multi-meter, signal generator, etc.).
 E. None of the above
4. What is your level of experience in testing radio frequency (RF) equipment for operational requirements?

 A. I have extensive experience testing RF equipment. I have led projects to design RF systems for secure communications, addressing challenges such as interference, encryption, and environmental factors. My work has directly improved operational capabilities.
 B. I have contributed to the testing and evaluation of RF equipment as part of a team, focusing on performance metrics and troubleshooting issues. While I didn?t lead the efforts, my contributions helped ensure the equipment met operational requirements.
 C. I have limited experience with RF equipment but have assisted in basic testing procedures, such as verifying signal strength and functionality. I am familiar with RF concepts and eager to expand my knowledge in this area.
 D. I have no experience with RF equipment.
5. How would you describe your experience in developing systems for technical surveillance countermeasures?

 A. I have extensive experience developing technical surveillance countermeasure systems. I have designed and implemented solutions to detect and mitigate surveillance threats, ensuring operational security during high-risk missions.
 B. I have contributed to the development of technical surveillance countermeasure systems by assisting in testing and evaluating prototypes. My role was supportive but critical to ensuring the systems met operational requirements.
 C. I have limited experience with technical surveillance countermeasures but have supported research efforts by gathering data and assisting in basic testing. I understand the basic principles and am eager to develop expertise in this area.
 D. I have no experience.
6. What is your level of experience in determining resource requirements to achieve short and long-term program goals in electronics engineering research and development?
 A. I have extensive experience leading program planning and coordination efforts. I have developed multi-year plans for electronics engineering projects, set priorities based on mission-critical needs, and successfully allocated resources to achieve both short- and long-term goals. I have coordinated with supporting stakeholders to ensure alignment with organizational objectives.
 B. I have participated in program planning and coordination by contributing to resource allocation and setting priorities for specific project tasks. While I didn?t lead the overall effort, I provided input that helped shape the program?s direction and ensured milestones were met.
 C. I have limited experience in program planning and coordination but have assisted in tracking progress and providing updates for ongoing projects. I understand the importance of setting priorities and allocating resources and am eager to develop these skills further.
 D. I have no experience in program planning or coordination.
7. How would you describe your experience in monitoring progress outcomes of research and development (R&D) projects to ensure goals are met?

 A. I have extensive experience monitoring progress outcomes for complex R&D projects. I have developed metrics to measure success, conducted regular progress reviews, and implemented corrective actions when necessary to ensure project goals were achieved on time and within budget.
 B. I have contributed to monitoring outcomes by tracking project milestones and preparing reports for leadership. While I didn?t define the metrics or lead the evaluations, I provided valuable insights to ensure goals were met.
 C. I have limited experience in monitoring outcomes but have supported monitoring efforts by gathering data and assisting in progress reviews. I understand the importance of tracking progress and am eager to take on more responsibility in this area.
 D. I have no experience in monitoring progress outcomes.
8. What is your experience in recommending plans for future initiatives, proposals, and projects to ensure the fielding of current protective and investigative technologies?

 A. I have extensive experience recommending plans for future initiatives. I have prepared detailed proposals, identified the most feasible approaches for implementing new technologies, and successfully secured funding for projects that enhanced operational capabilities.
 B. I have contributed by recommending plans for future initiatives by providing my technical input and assisting in the preparation of proposals. While I didn?t lead the effort, my contributions helped shape the direction of the projects.
 C. I have limited experience in making recommendations for plans for future initiatives but have supported the process by gathering data and preparing documentation. I am eager to learn how to take a more active role in planning and recommending new projects.
 D. I have no experience in recommending plans for future initiatives.
9. What is your level of experience managing contracts for procurement as part of program management?
 A. I have extensive experience managing contracts and serving as a Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR). I have written detailed technical and operational specifications, prepared justifications and evaluation criteria for procurement, and advised contracting officers on technical matters to ensure successful project execution.
 B. I have assisted in contract management by preparing sections of technical specifications and providing input for procurement justifications. While I didn?t serve as the primary COTR, I supported the contracting process and ensured technical requirements were met.
 C. I have limited experience in contract management but have supported the process by reviewing technical specifications and assisting in procurement documentation. I am eager to learn more about managing contracts and preparing operational specifications.
 D. I have no experience.
10. What is your level of experience in preparing technical briefings for different audiences (i.e. end-users and supervisors)?

 A. I have extensive experience preparing technical briefings. I have developed comprehensive documentation for end-users, conducted training sessions, and provided technical briefings to leadership, ensuring clarity and usability.
 B. I have contributed to the preparation of technical briefings and maintenance guides by assisting in drafting sections and reviewing content for accuracy. While I didn?t lead the efforts, my input helped improve the quality of the documentation.
 C. I have limited experience preparing technical briefings and guides but have supported the process by gathering data and assisting in formatting documents. I am eager to learn more about creating and delivering technical materials.
 D. I have no experience preparing technical briefings or guides.
11. What is your level of experience in writing technical documentation, such as system concept papers, operational specifications, and maintenance guides, that is appropriate for the intended audience?

 A. I have extensive experience writing technical documentation, including system concept papers, operational specifications, and maintenance guides. I tailor my writing to meet the needs of technical and non-technical audiences, ensuring clarity, accuracy, and usability.
 B. I have contributed to technical documentation by drafting sections and reviewing content for clarity and accuracy. While I didn?t lead the efforts, my input ensured the material was appropriate for the intended audience.
 C. I have limited experience writing technical documentation but have assisted in formatting and organizing content. I understand the importance of tailoring information to the audience and am eager to develop my skills further.
 D. I have no experience producing technical documentation.
12. How would you describe your experience in writing i.e., reports, proposals, and or briefings that communicate complex technical information in a succinct and organized manner?

 A. I have extensive experience writing reports, proposals, and briefings that communicate complex technical information. I excel at organizing content logically and presenting it clearly and concise, ensuring the audience fully understands the material.
 B. I have contributed to writing reports and proposals by summarizing technical information and organizing sections for clarity. While I didn?t lead the efforts, my contributions helped ensure the material was succinct and well-organized.
 C. I have limited experience writing reports or proposals but have supported the process by gathering data and assisting in formatting content. I am eager to learn how to communicate complex information effectively.
 D. I have no experience writing reports or proposals.
13. What is your level of experience delivering oral presentations to diverse audiences, including technical and non-technical stakeholders, on complex topics such as electronics engineering research and development?

 A. I have extensive experience delivering oral presentations on complex technical topics to diverse audiences. I excel at tailoring my communication to the audience, ensuring technical details are clear for technical experts while simplifying concepts for non-technical stakeholders. I have presented at interagency meetings, workshops, and conferences.
 B. I have delivered portions of oral presentations on technical topics, focusing on specific areas of expertise. While I didn?t lead the overall presentation, I ensured my contributions were clear and appropriate for the audience.
 C. I have limited experience delivering oral presentations but have supported others by preparing content and answering questions during discussions. I am eager to develop my skills in presenting technical information effectively.
 D. I have no experience delivering oral presentations.
14. How would you describe your experience resolving controversial/sensitive issues with individuals/groups who have differing views?

 A. I have extensive experience resolving controversial/sensitive issues with individuals/groups who hold differing views. I excel at actively listening to others and presenting clear and convincing arguments. I have found mutually acceptable solutions for these issues that align with organizational objectives.
 B. I have participated in discussions to resolve controversial/sensitive issues, providing technical input and supporting the negotiation process. While I didn?t lead the effort, I contributed to finding solutions that addressed differing viewpoints.
 C. I have limited experience resolving controversial issues but have supported others by providing technical information and clarifications during discussions. I am eager to develop my skills in this area.
 D. I have no experience resolving controversial issues.
15. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected