Position Title
Forestry Technician (Fire Dispatch) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
25-IMRFIRE-12753996-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 30, 2025 to Monday, July 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
4
5
2. When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.
3. This is a Career-Seasonal position and subject to release and recall procedures. A permanent career-seasonal position includes all the benefits of permanent employment but does not provide employment on a full year-round basis. As such, the selectee will be in a non-pay/non-duty status for 13 pay periods during their first service year in this position.

After their first service year, Career Seasonal employees are guaranteed to work at least 6 months per year, but not more than 50 weeks per year. An employment agreement is required and can be changed annually. Are you willing to accept a permanent, career seasonal position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the following minimum qualifications question, as well as the other questions in the questionnaire, in conjunction with the information provided in your completed application, will be evaluated to determine your qualifications for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS.
For each of the following tasks, choose the statement from the list below that best describe your experience and/or training. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. Your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, and other relevant documents you submit.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Have you successfully obtained, and completed, work experience performing on-the-line (Primary/Rigorous) wildland fire suppression duties as a member of an organized fire suppression crew, or comparable unit, that utilized knowledge of wildland fire suppression, containment or control techniques, and practices under various conditions AND is this experience, to include specific dates and specific duties, documented in your work history/resume?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the general experience and requirements for the GW-04 level of this 0462 Forestry Technician (Fire Dispatch) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 A. I have at least one year of general work experience at the GW/GS-03 in the Federal service, or equivalent, which includes the following: Receiving and relaying information to the appropriate person or office; using computer databases, spreadsheets, word processing software, and/or maintaining logs; processing and maintaining documents and files per organizational guidelines.
 B. I have 2 full academic years (60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours) of education beyond the high school level at an accredited college or university (Transcripts MUST be provided at the time of application).
 C. I have a combination of experience and education that qualifies me for the position (Transcripts MUST be provided at the time of application).
 D. I do not meet or possess the specialized experience, education or combination of education and experience as described above.
3. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and requirements for the GW-05 level of this 0462 Forestry Technician (Fire Dispatch) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GW/GS-04 grade level, which includes the following: Communicating information regarding wildland fire incidents to the appropriate person or office; utilizing a telecommunication system to transmit and receive information to and from field units; working with various computer software programs to maintain incident logs, fire records, and resource tracking; providing service to the center customer base regarding wildland fire incidents and daily operations.
 B. I have at least 4 full academic years (120 semester hours or 180 quarter hours) of education beyond the high school level at an accredited college or university (Transcripts MUST be provided at the time of application).
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience and education that qualifies me for the position (Transcripts MUST be provided at the time of application).
 D. I do not meet or possess the specialized experience, education, or combination of education and experience as described above.
4. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected