Position Title
Criminal Investigator (CS), NTE 1-Year, MBE/MBP
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-12811715C-CIN-1811-14 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 3, 2025 to Friday, October 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
20.
I contributed significantly to criminal investigations by being trained/certified and assigned to perform the following collateral duties.
 A. Asset Forfeiture Coordinator
 B. Use of Force Instructor
 C. Physical Fitness Program Coordinator/Instructor
 D. Undercover Shopper
 E. Undercover Agent
 F. Cover Agent
 G. Tech Agent
 H. Recruitment Coordinator
 I. On-the-Job Instructor (OJI)
 J. Computer Investigative/Forensic Specialist
 K. Forensic/Polygraph Specialist
 L. Protective Service
 M. Money Laundering Expert Witness
 N. Law Enforcement Instructor Training Program (LEITP) certification
 O. None of the above


21.
Select the types of special investigative techniques for which you have prepared, submitted and coordinated the activity as the primary agent.

 A. Consensual monitoring – telephonic
 B. Consensual monitoring – non telephonic
 C. Non Consensual Real time communication – oral, wire, electronic
 D. Confidential Informant
 E. CI/CW – defendant or prisoner
 F. Stored wire and electronic communications
 G. Pen register
 H. Trap and trace devices
 I. Electronic tracking devices
 J. Video and aerial surveillance
 K. Cyber surveillance
 L. Group 1 undercover operation
 M. Group 2 undercover operation
 N. Limited undercover contact such as BOP, QRP/RRP, Storefront operation
 O. None of the above


22.
Which statement best describes your experience?
 As an investigative team member, I have conducted hostile interviews that have resulted in a positive outcome for the Agency.
 As an investigative team member, I have handled investigative situations involving a degree of tension or discomfort with people who are demonstrating some hostility or distress that has resulted in a positive outcome for the Agency.
 As an investigative team member, I have managed investigative situations involving little tension, discomfort, hostility, or distress that has resulted in a positive outcome for the Agency.
 None of the above.


23.
Please select from the following the case development collateral duties you have performed that contributed significantly to criminal investigations.
 A. QRP/RPP Coordinator
 B. Identity Theft Coordinator
 C. Business Opportunity Project Coordinator
 D. Employment Tax/CAWR Coordinator
 E. SAR Review Team Lead
 F. Financial Investigative Task Force Lead
 G. Cybercrime Coordinator/Cyber Task Force
 H. White Collar Fraud Task Force
 I. Joint Terrorism Task Force
 J. None of the above


24.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of organizational experience?
 Led a project or other national initiative that crossed business units
 Participated in a project or other national initiative that crossed business units
 Led a project or initiative primarily within Criminal Investigation
 Participated in a project or initiative primarily within Criminal Investigation
 Led a project within my Field Office
 Participated in a project within my Field Office
 None of the above


25.
Which of the following best describes your organizational leadership experience?
 Successfully completed a formal IRS managerial training class and/or leadership program [e.g. Frontline Leadership Readiness Program (FLRP)
 Successfully completed a long-term (greater than 60 days) Acting Supervisory Special Agent detail assignment
 Conducted short-term Acting Supervisory Special Agent detail assignments
 Participated in student training program as an on-the-job instructor
 Informally mentored other Special Agents
 None of the above


26.
Please select the most significant type of affidavits you have authored and executed.
 A. Criminal Complaint for arrest, Affidavit for search warrant – single site premise, or Affidavit for seizure
 B. Affidavit for search warrant – vehicle, email, or safe deposit box
 C. Affidavit for multi-site search or seizure
 D. Affidavit for search or seizure relating to a sensitive subject as defined in legal guidance (e.g. IRM)
 E. I did none of the above


27.
Which of the following is the highest level of experience you have in working with complex rules, laws, regulations, policies, or procedures on the job?
 I have determined the impact of new laws, regulations, procedures or policies and recommended revisions to the IRM.
 I regularly researched and interpreted rules, laws, regulations, policies, and procedures and applied them on the job.
 I am familiar with the rules, laws, regulations policies, and procedures of the IRS and know where and how to find specific references.
 I have no experience.


28.
Which of the following tasks have you performed in the past three years?
 A. Provided informal case related feedback to other employees
 B. Provided formal written case related feedback to other employees
 C. Performed a taint review
 D. Participated in case preparation and exhibits for court and/or testified in court proceedings in a grand jury case
 E. Assisted in preparing individuals to testify in a Criminal Trail or Tax Court hearings
 F. Testified directly in a Criminal Trial
 G. Participated in four-way criminal fraud referral evaluation conferences
 H. Acted as a group manager
 I. None of the above


29.
As the primary case agent, I have completed criminal investigations where I have investigated or utilized:
 A. Federal tax violations
 B. Specific item methods of proof
 C. Bank Deposits Method of proof
 D. Net Worth Method of Proof
 E. Expenditures Method of Proof
 F. Utilization of nominees, bank accounts and/or entities
 G. Utilization of alter ego and/or sham corporations
 H. Multiple judicial districts and/or targets
 I. International financial records and/or testimony
 J. Cryptocurrency or other virtual currency
 K. Money Launder violations
 L. International tax treaties
 M. Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty (MLAT) for tax related records
 N. Ex Parte orders for IRS tax records
 O. None of the above


30.
Please identify your highest level of experience in the area of tax case development.
 A. I developed and sustained tax case inventory for myself and others.
 B. I independently initiated a general investigation that generated tax investigations for myself and others.
 C. I developed and sustained tax case inventory for myself.
 D. I participated in a national initiative that developed tax case inventory for others across the nation.
 E. None of the above


31.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙