Position Title
Lead Nuclear Materials Courier (SRF)
Agency
National Nuclear Security Administration
Announcement Number
25-NA-15-OST-XA-00297-NNSA Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 15, 2025 to Thursday, August 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a PROMOTION to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?

Note: also select "Yes" if applying for a change-to-lower grade (CTLG) to a position with higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis.

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a REASSIGNMENT, CHANGE-TO-LOWER GRADE, or REPROMOTION and you currently or previously held a position with the same grade/pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).
2. I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
WARNING! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from employment consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications.
3. I have read this Vacancy Announcement thoroughly and understand that supplemental documentation may be required. I further understand that I will not be considered if my supplemental documentation is not received in the Servicing Personnel Office by the closing date of the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you currently serving or have you served under a Political Appointment in the Federal Government within the last five (5) years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Lead Nuclear Materials Courier (SRF), NV-0084-03 position with the NNSA. Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire. If, after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Are you a current National Nuclear Security Administration employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. You must meet the basic qualification requirements for a NV-03 level (GS12) Nuclear Materials Courier position. Select the answer which best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year of specialized experience in responsibility and scope at the NV-02 pay band or the GS-11 level as described in the vacancy announcement under specialized experience requirements.
 B. I do not meet the experience requirements described above.
3. Do you have experience as a Nuclear Materials Courier?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Select the response that best reflects your experience as a Special Response Force (SRF), Recovery Team Leader (RTL) during Operational Readiness Training (ORT), SRF Sustainment Training, Unit sized training events, and/or individual squad training.



 A. I have served as an acting CCIC or RTL during Operational Readiness Training, SRF Sustainment Training, Unit sized training events, and/or individual Squad training, directing team actions against an opposing force.
 B. Under direct supervision, I have served as an acting CCIC or RTL during Operational Readiness Training, SRF Sustainment Training, Unit sized training events, and/or individual Squad training, directing team actions against an opposing force.
 C. I have observed a CCIC or RTL conduct tactical objectives and have knowledge of the roles and responsibilities of an RTL.
 D. I have participated in advanced training courses and joint exercises with government law enforcement agencies to maintain and enhance proficiency in defensive tactics during realistic combat situations.
 E. I have not performed any of the above.
5. Select the response that best describes your highest level of Special Response Force (SRF) experience.


 A. I have been an acting RTL during operational missions. I have led and employed the SRF in support of the CCIC’s intent and I have overseen the decentralized execution of security maneuvers during missions in support of the shipment defense philosophy.
 B. have been an acting ATL during operational missions. I have assisted in leading and employing the SRF in support of the CCIC’s intent and I have helped the RTL oversee the decentralized execution of security maneuvers during missions in support of the shipment defense philosophy.
 C. I am knowledgeable in the operation of SRF vehicles and equipment used in the transportation and protection of nuclear materials shipments to develop and execute plans that incorporate their capabilities and to resolve operational problems that may develop on a mission.
 D. I have not performed any of the above.
6. Select the response that best describes your experience in security planning, conduct or oversight of threat assessments of potential hostilities and adverse conditions to include man-made and environmental conditions.



 A. As an acting Convoy Commander in Charge or RTL, I have conducted pre-operational shipment planning with intelligence operations specialists, Duty Officers, and Deputy Directors; planned routes and stops; provided highly technical input on developing security plans; conducted or oversaw threat assessments of potential hostilities and adverse conditions to include man-made conditions and natural phenomena.
 B. Under direct supervision, I have conducted pre-operational shipment planning with intelligence operations specialists, Duty Officers, and Deputy Directors; planned routes and stops; provided highly hostilities and adverse conditions to include man-made conditions and natural phenomena.
 C. In part, I have assisted the Convoy Commander in Charge or RTL with pre-operational shipment planning with intelligence operations specialists, Duty Officers, and Deputy Directors; planning routes and stops; providing highly technical input on developing security plans; conducting or overseeing threat assessments of potential hostilities and adverse conditions to include man-made conditions and natural phenomena.
 D. I have knowledge of pre-operational shipment planning with intelligence operations specialists, Duty Officers, and Deputy Directors; planning routes and stops; providing highly technical input on developing security plans; conducting or overseeing threat assessments of potential hostilities and adverse conditions to include man-made conditions and natural phenomena.
 E. I have not performed any of the above.
7. Select the response that best describes your ability to guide multiple tactical teams towards a specified objective in real world or in training venues.


 A. Under direct supervision I have performed the role of a Tactical Convoy Commander (TCC) during Operational Readiness Training, or other Unit sized training events guiding teams toward specific objectives.
 B. I have participated in advanced training courses and joint exercises with government law enforcement agencies to maintain and enhance proficiency in defensive tactics during realistic combat situations.
 C. I have observed a TCC conduct tactical objectives and have knowledge of the roles and responsibilities of a TCC.
 D. I have not performed any of the above.
8. Select the response that best describes your ability to assign personnel and/or equipment resources within a Unit.


 A. As an acting Convoy Commander in Charge or RTL I have directed and monitored the work of all assigned agents during convoy operations including pre- and post-trip duties, redistributed work assignments to complete tasks, and assured classified operating procedures are followed.
 B. Under direct supervision I have directed and monitored the work of all assigned agents during convoy operations including pre- and post-trip duties, redistributed work assignments to complete tasks, and assured classified operating procedures are followed.
 C. In part, I have assisted the CCIC or RTL in directing and monitoring the work of all assigned agents during convoy operations including pre- and post-trip duties, in redistributing work assignments to complete tasks, and in assuring classified operating procedures are followed.
 D. I have knowledge of the roles the CCIC or RTL has in directing and monitoring the work of all assigned agents during convoy operations including pre- and post-trip duties, in redistributing work assignments to complete tasks, and in assuring classified operating procedures are followed.
 E. I have not performed any of the above.
9. 9. Select the response which best reflects your experience performing the following team leader functions:

1. Coaching team members in problem solving methods.
2. Identifying, distributing, and balancing workload of team members.
3. Training or arranging training for team members.
4. Assisting Convoy Commander in Charge (CCIC) or Squad Commander in evaluating the performance of team members.
5. Resolving simple, informal complaints of team members.
6. Representing the team in dealings with supervisors.
7. Monitoring progress of and/or checking team assignments.
8. Assigning work based upon priorities, difficulty of assignments and capabilities of team members.
 A. I have performed all the above leader functions identified in the question above.
 B. I have performed at least 5 of the 7 leader functions identified in the question above.
 C. I have performed at least 1, but less than 5 of the above leader functions.
 D. I have not performed any of the above.
10. Select the response which best describes your level of knowledge of, and experience applying, Office of Secure Transportation (OST) Procedures, Policies, and Directives and how they are applied operationally.


 A. As acting CCIC, TCC, ACC, RTL, or ATL or under direct supervision, I have applied OST Standard Operating Procedures, Policies, and Directives while in mission status.
 B. I have knowledge of the OST Standard Operating Procedures, Policies, and Directives a CCIC or RTL must apply during a mission.
 C. I do not have knowledge of or experience in the above.
11. Select the response that best describes your ability to rapidly assess a situation, determine course of action, provide direction to subordinates, and communicate status and/or recommendations to Agent Operations Command management.


 A. I have assessed situations, determined courses of action, provided direction, and communicated status to Agent Operations Command management.
 B. I have assisted the CCIC with the assessment of a situation, determining the course of action and communicating recommendations to Agent Operations Command management.
 C. I have not performed any of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
12. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected