Position Title
Immigration Services Officer
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12779284-NOL-DE-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Monday, August 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current DHS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Do you wish to be considered under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) because you are a current or former Federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.704

For more information about ICTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former DHS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606.
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
3. I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-09 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed a Master’s or equivalent graduate degree or at least two (2) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. in a field related to the work of this position as described in the vacancy announcement.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education beyond the first year of graduate study that together meet the requirements for this position.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
3. Select the duties you performed when assisting applicants applying for benefits.
 A. Advised applicants on what supporting documentation was needed to apply.
 B. Explained laws, regulations and/or policies to applicants.
 C. When ineligible applicants were identified, I explained eligibility requirements.
 D. Assisted applicants with completing forms
 E. Explained administrative procedures to applicants (e.g., documentation, points of contact, deadlines).
 F. Explained processing times to applicants.
 G. Answered questions regarding pending status of application.
 H. Determined the acceptability of applications based on laws and/or regulations.
 I. Referred questionable cases to a superior.
 J. Reviewed applicant inquiries to determine nature of request.
 K. None of the above.
4. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interviewing individuals to elicit and clarify information?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to interviewing individuals.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to interviewing techniques, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I advised others on effective techniques for unique interview situations.
 D. I independently interviewed individuals to elicit information in routine, non-sensitive cases.
 E. I independently interviewed individuals related to high-profile and extremely sensitive cases.
 F. I collaborated with my supervisor or senior team members to prepare for interviews.
 G. I completed interviews under the close guidance of my supervisor or senior team members.
5. Which statement best describes your experience with setting work priorities?
 A. I have worked with others to set my priorities.
 B. I have independently maintained and set my own priorities on a regular basis.
 C. I have assisted in setting other's priorities (i.e. group settings).
 D. I have delegated priorities to others.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education with setting work priorities.
6. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience taking action after determining the status of case files?
 A. I responded to inquiries regarding status updates.
 B. I consulted with the appropriate personnel to resolve administrative obstacles that caused a delay in case processing.
 C. I made recommendations on the most appropriate course of action.
 D. I provided case file status information to my supervisor/superior.
 E. None of the above.
7. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience reviewing case file documents to determine the current status?
 A. I analyzed systems to ensure that they had current case status.
 B. I updated systems and databases to perform case management.
 C. I reviewed and tracked case files to ensure proper resolution of issues, problems, and errors in order to determine correct status.
 D. I researched, collected, and analyzed data in order to prepare case status reports
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to determining case file status.
 F. I completed education and/or training related to case file status determinations, but do not have professional experience.
8. Which sources have you researched to adjudicate applications for benefits?
 A. Precedent decisions
 B. Guidance in legislative history
 C. Federal laws and regulations
 D. State and local news
 E. Operating instructions
 F. International treaties
 G. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. Have you passed the Immigration Services Officer Basic Training Course (BASIC)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Select the tasks you have performed related to conducting security checks for immigration benefit applications.
 A. I used government systems to initiate security checks in accordance with all applicable laws and policies.
 B. I ensured that all records and property were maintained and destroyed in accordance with security requirements.
 C. I identified files with national security threats and public safety issues and prioritized them for security checks.
 D. I conducted file searches for aliases.
 E. I conducted file searches for criminal behavior.
 F. I conducted file searches for dates of birth.
 G. None of the above.
11. Select the activities you have performed to process application/petition packets.
 A. Reviewed applications/petitions for completeness.
 B. Verified accuracy of entered data
 C. Updated databases with new/revised information.
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential fraud
 F. Identified inconsistencies in case file contents
 G. Prepared follow up activities for packets that were identified as incomplete
 H. None of the above
12. Which choice best describes your highest level of experience adjudicating immigration benefits?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education in adjudicating immigration benefits.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to adjudicating immigration benefits but do not yet have professional experience.
 C. I provided data to immigration services officers who were responsible for adjudication.
 D. I reviewed immigration benefits applications for completion and accuracy.
 E. I adjudicated immigration benefits applications.
13. Select the tasks you have performed using computer systems to verify an individual's current identity and immigration status.
 A. Conducted file searches for aliases
 B. Conducted file searches for dates of birth
 C. Conducted file searches for adjudicated/pending applications
 D. Searched system for aliases and date of birth variations
 E. Searched system for previous immigration applications
 F. None of the above
14. Select the activities you have performed to ensure the integrity of case files.
 A. I maintained a file organization processes to ensure that files were accounted for on a daily basis.
 B. I managed a tracking database containing a process for checking-out and checking-in files.
 C. I identified missing files through conducting inventory and reconstructed the file to ensure all contents were restored.
 D. I located missing files and put them back where they belonged.
 E. I created temporary folders while organizing or consolidating files.
 F. None of the above.
15. Select the resources you have used to complete research on an individual's eligibility for immigration benefits.
 A. Immigration and Nationality Act
 B. Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (NACARA)
 C. Violence Against Women Act (VAWA
 D. Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)
 E. Convention Against Torture
 F. Case Precedents
 G. Country Conditions
 H. International Human Rights Laws and Treaties
 I. Documentary Evidence
 J. Law enforcement data bases and records
 K. Agency's policy and procedures manual
 L. None of the above
16. Select the types of documents you have drafted related to immigration benefit applications.
 A. Denials
 B. Letters of Intent to Deny or Revoke
 C. Border Warning Notices
 D. Liability Evidence Records
 E. Withdrawals
 F. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
17. Do you have experience responding to email inquiries that required explaining procedures?
 A. Yes
 B. No
18. Select the written documents you have drafted pertaining to immigration law.
 A. Explanation of rules or regulations
 B. Response to applicants regarding pending status inquiries
 C. Reports regarding compliance
 D. Requests for documentation from applicants
 E. College papers pertaining to immigration law
 F. Legal research projects
 G. None of the above
19. Which choice best describes your highest level of experience writing documents that are consistent with adjudicative standards?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to writing documents consistent with adjudicative standards, but do not yet have professional experience.
 B. I drafted documents for senior level review and finalization.
 C. I independently researched and interpreted adjudicative standards in order to create logical, well organized correspondence related to benefit cases.
 D. I independently reviewed and approved others' documents to ensure standards were met.
 E. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
20. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected