Position Title
CHILD AND YOUTH PROGRAM TRAINING AND CURRICULUM SPECIALIST
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
JRM-25-372 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, June 26, 2025 to Friday, July 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to submit to a pre-employment physical exam prior to employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I am willing and able to obtain appropriate immunization against communicable diseases in accordance with recommendations from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) to include the influenza vaccine
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience, education, and/or training to qualify for the NAF Child and Youth Program Training and Curriculum Specialist.  Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and/or specialized experience; failure to respond to the question(s); and/or failure to provide required documentation will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below and required documentation uploaded at the time of submission of application/resume packet for this position.

1. Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or experience related to this position. (Resume MUST reflect experience and MUST provide official transcripts)
 A. Master's degree in Early Childhood Education or Child Development AND a minimum of 1 year of full-time experience working with children and/or youth (Resume MUST reflect experience and MUST provide official transcripts)
 B. 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education or Child Development AND 3 years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth (Resume MUST reflect experience and MUST provide official transcripts)
 C. An appropriate combination of experience and education (24 higher level semester hours in Early Childhood Education or Child Development) that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth (Resume MUST reflect experience and MUST provide official transcripts)
 D. None of the statements apply to me
2. Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to this position. (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Has 5+ years of full time work experience in a Child and Youth Program (CYP) Training and Curriculum Specialist position or related position responsible for providing professional training and/or education to adults (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 B. Has 3+ years of full time work experience in a Child and Youth Program (CYP) Training and Curriculum Specialist position or related position responsible for providing professional training and/or education to adults (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 C. Has 1+ years of full time work experience in a Child and Youth Program (CYP) Training and Curriculum Specialist position or related position responsible for providing professional training and/or education to adults (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 D. None of the statements apply to me
3. Choose the statement that best applies to you. (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Currently holds a Child and Youth Program (CYP) Training and Curriculum Specialist position or related position responsible for providing professional training or education within CNIC (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 B. Currently holds a Child and Youth Program (CYP) Training and Curriculum Specialist position or related position responsible for providing professional training or education within DoD (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 C. Has held a Child and Youth Program (CYP) Training and Curriculum Specialist position or related position responsible for providing professional training or education within the last 3 years (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 D. None of the statements apply to me
4. Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to this position. (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Has 5+ years of full time work experience in guiding and supporting the national accreditation of a child or youth program (e.g., experience with accreditation support, accreditation self-study or site visits) (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 B. Has 3+ years of full time work experience in guiding and supporting the national accreditation of a child or youth program (e.g., experience with accreditation support, accreditation self-study or site visits) (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 C. Has 1+ years of full time work experience in guiding and supporting the national accreditation of a child or youth program (e.g., experience with accreditation support, accreditation self-study or site visits) (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 D. None of the statements apply to me
5. Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to this position. (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 A. Has 5+ years full time work experience in providing guidance and leadership to CYP Professionals (e.g., working as a mentor, program leader, lead teacher, or other supervisory experience) (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 B. Has 3+ years full time work experience in providing guidance and leadership to CYP Professionals (e.g., working as a mentor, program leader, lead teacher, or other supervisory experience) (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 C. Has 1+ years full time work experience in providing guidance and leadership to CYP Professionals (e.g., working as a mentor, program leader, lead teacher, or other supervisory experience) (Resume MUST reflect experience)
 D. None of the statements apply to me
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected