Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Sports Coordinator)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
CC-26-12814508 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 10, 2025 to Thursday, October 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


5.
I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education to qualify for a Supervisory Recreation Specialist - (Community Recreation Department) NF-0188-03 vacancy. Failure to respond to the questionnaire will result in disqualification. All experience must be clearly documented on resume.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you. (Transcripts must be received if qualifying based on education)
 A minimum of a 4-year degree in General Recreation, Outdoor Recreation, Recreation and Parks Leadership, Wild Land Recreation Management, Natural Resources Recreation, Youth Recreation, Public, Urban, or Community Recreation, or Physical Education.
 I possess at least three years of specialized experience that includes, planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating community, industrial, outdoor, institutional, or other recreational programs.
 I possess a combination of education and experience.
 I possess none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have managing recreational sports programs or similar activities that involved applying policies, goals, regulations, and procedures?
 I do not have any of the above-mentioned experience.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I have more than three (3) years of experience as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have planning and leading recreation programs designed to motivate participants and promote their physical, psychological, and social well-being?
 I do not have any experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 I have less than two (2) years of experience as mentioned above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as mentioned above.
 I have at least four (4) years of experience as mentioned above.


4.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I do not have any supervisory experience.
 I have less than two (2) years of supervisory experience.
 I have between two (2) and four (4) years of supervisory experience.
 I have more than four (4) years of supervisory experience.


5.
How many years of experience do you have resolving disputes or conflicts during active sporting events or similar environments?
 I have no experience with public speaking.
 I have less than one (1) year of public speaking.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of public speaking.
 I have between two (2) and four (4) years of public speaking.
 I have more than four (4) years of public speaking.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙