Position Title
District Chief Law Enforcement Ranger
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
CAMP-25-12751734-JP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 27, 2025 to Friday, July 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Veterans 30% Disabled Authority:  Do you meet the following eligibility?
 
I am a veteran who separated or from active duty under honorable conditions and have been rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs as having a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Appointment of Certain Military Family Members:  Do you meet any of the following eligibilities?
I am the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces.
I am the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent, or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
I am the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.    

Supporting Documentation showing proof of eligibility:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage) and verification of the spouse's military service;

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Current or Former Federal Employee:  Do you meet any of the following eligibilities? 
I am a current Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service AND the highest grade level I have held on a permanent basis is lower than the full performance level of the position being announced.
I am a former Federal employee who held a permanent career appointment in the competitive service AND the highest grade level I have held on a permanent basis is lower than the full performance level of the position being announced.
I am a former Federal employee who obtained career-conditional status (within 3 years of the date of separation or am a preference eligible) AND the highest grade level I have held on a permanent basis is lower than the full performance level of the position being announced.
To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. If you were career-conditional and resigned, you will need to submit your resignation SF-50. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA):  Do you meet any of the following eligibilities?
 
I am a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and I meet one of the following criteria:
I have served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility).
I am entitled to veterans' preference.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former Public Land Corps (PLC) Member who served as a qualified youth, ages 16 to 30 years, on an appropriate conservation project completing a minimum of 640 hours of satisfactory service that included at least 120 hours on Federal public lands within the last two (2) years?

      For more information go to: https://www.blm.gov/careers/students-and-grads/public-lands-corps

To verify your eligibility, you must provide:  a copy of your "Certificate of Eligibility for Noncompetitive Hiring" along with a copy of your "PLC Participant Verification Work Hours Sheet."
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:

• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and for reasons other than misconduct or performance 

In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility. You must submit documentation showing all required periods of service (generally SF-50s) and acceptable performance (generally performance appraisal ratings or memorandum of record where the supervisor documented an acceptable performance level, or reference by supervisors, etc.).   All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Non-Competitive Current Federal Employees:  Do you meet any of the following eligibilities?
I am currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service at the same grade level as the full performance of the position being announced
I am currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service at a higher grade level than the full performance of the position being announced
I am currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service serving in a position with a full performance level equivalent to or higher than the full performance level of the position being announced  
I am currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and have previously held a permanent position with a full performance level equivalent to or higher than the full performance level of the position being announced   
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Non-Competitive Former Federal Employees: Do you meet any of the following eligibilities?
I am a former Federal civilian employee that served on a permanent career competitive appointment AND have held the same grade level as the full performance of the position being announced or higher with the same or higher promotion potential.
I have obtained career-conditional status (within 3 years of the date of separation or am a preference eligible) AND have held the same grade level as the full performance of the position being announced or higher with the same or higher promotion potential.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. OPM Interchange Agreement and Other Miscellaneous Authorities - Do you meet any of the following eligibilities?
I am a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management.
I am a current employee of a Federal Agency that is covered by a miscellaneous appointing authority not regulated by Office of Personnel Management.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months? 

-OR

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position? 

-OR

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years? 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.  

In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Schedule A Appointments:  Do you meet the following eligibility?
I have a severe physical, psychiatric or intellectual disability that qualifies for a Schedule A Appointment.
 If eligible, you must submit documentation of eligibility for employment under Schedule A.  Documentation must meet the following criteria:
Documentation must be obtained from a licensed medical professional; a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist; or any Federal agency, state agency, or agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.
Documentation must verify that the individual is indeed a person with a severe physical, psychiatric or intellectual disability.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bakersfield, CA
 B. Bishop, CA
 C. El Dorado Hills, CA
 D. Marina, CA
 E. Ukiah, CA
Assessment 1
1. I qualify for the GS-13 level because:

 A. I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 in the Federal Service as a Law Enforcement Ranger or a related position which required me to coordinate, plan, implement, and oversee the Law Enforcement Ranger function in a natural resource agency. Examples of this experience would be oversight of the unauthorized use activities on public lands, coordination of crime reporting, and analyzing Law Enforcement needs and formulation of Law Enforcement plans.
 B. I do not have the specialized experience described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. I have prior experience as a Law Enforcement Officer carrying out duties involving investigation, apprehension, and/or detention of persons suspected or convicted of offenses against the criminal laws of the United States to qualify for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I have successfully completed the Land Management Police Training (LMPT); OR Natural Resource Police Training (NRPT); OR National Park Ranger Integrated (NPRI) Training at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC).

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I currently have, a valid State Driver's License. I understand if selected, I will be required to submit a copy of my license per current federal guidelines and laws.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. From the following, select the subjects in which you prepare written reports or guidance in a law enforcement program.
 A. Resource protection
 B. Law enforcement plans
 C. Law enforcement policies
 D. Law enforcement special studies
 E. Incident reports
 F. Investigative reports
 G. Procedure memorandums
 H. Interoffice memorandums
 I. Bureau policy
 J. State policy
 K. None of the above
6. Select the one response which best describes your experience and abilities to communicate in writing including written reports on investigative activities.

 A. I was the primary writer of numerous documents which were widely distributed, used to influence decisions of others, covered broad topics and complex issues, required technical soundness, and which had to be written in a clear, concise, and complete manner.
 B. I was the primary writer of investigative reports and assisted in the preparation of legal documents, such as search and arrest warrants, indictments, information, and plea agreements for criminal investigations which were complex and sensitive.
 C. I was the primary writer of investigative reports.
 D. I assisted with the preparation of and/or reviewed (proofed) documents for another individual who was the primary writer of documents.
 E. None of the above apply.
7. Select the statement that describes your experience in assuming the duties of another position in an acting capacity to ensure an organization runs smoothly.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
8. Select the response(s) that represent the type of leadership you have routinely provided in a work situation.

 A. I have set goals, milestones and expectations.
 B. I have planned work assignments and assigned the work to team members.
 C. I have followed-up with team members to assure timeliness in meeting milestones.
 D. I have reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness.
 E. I have evaluated the effectiveness of a complete project or program goal.
 F. I have reported progress to senior management.
 G. I have coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results.
 H. I have resolved conflicts, differences or problems among team members.
 I. None of the above.
9. Which of the following best describes your experience in investigating and prosecuting natural resource crimes?

 A. I have no experience with investigations.
 B. I have performed similar or directly related investigations and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions for a natural resource agency successfully.
 C. I have independently performed investigations into natural resource related crimes as a regular part of jobs that I have held. I have represented my agency before attorneys, magistrates, and the court systems.
 D. I am highly skilled at performing natural resource investigations and representing cases before the judicial system. I have performed them routinely and have carried them out successfully to enhance credibility with my agency within the justice system, and improve compliance by the public for my employing organization. I have drafted criminal complaints, affidavits, and warrants. I am frequently sought out by my peers as a subject matter expert in this area.
10. Which of the following best describes your experience in identifying resource projects to plan for law enforcement activities in support of resource projects.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
11. From the following, select the one statement that best describes your experience planning, directing and conducting short term special law enforcement operations for a natural resource agency.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
12. Please select each law enforcement activity that you have experience in working as a member of an interagency team.
 A. Eradication of marijuana gardens
 B. Crowd control
 C. Archaeological Investigations
 D. Vegetation Investigations
 E. Arson Investigations
 F. Dignitary security
 G. National security details
 H. None of the Above
13. Select the statement that best describes the skills that you routinely apply in a team setting.

 A. I have not typically had, or job conditions did not allow, frequent or regular interactions with other employees and/or supervisors within a team setting.
 B. I have occasionally interacted with and relayed information to co-workers and supervisors within a team setting.
 C. I have frequently interacted with and relayed information to co-workers and supervisors within a team setting.
 D. I have frequently interacted with and relayed information to co-workers and supervisors within a team setting. In situations such as shifts in priorities and work assignments resulting from unexpected events, I have evaluated priorities and objectives and provided the team with advice and guidance.
 E. I have frequently interacted with and relayed information to co-workers and supervisors within a team setting. In situations such as shifts in priorities and work assignments resulting from unexpected events, I have evaluated priorities and objectives, provided the team with advice and guidance, and made changes affecting the program. I have also resolved conflicts within the team by tactfully handling difficult or uncomfortable situations.
14. Select the statement that best describe your ability to make timely and effective decisions and produce results through strategic planning and the implementation and evaluation of Human Capital Management programs and policies:
 A. On own, develops ideas, programs, etc. that have an impact on a wide range of activities within the organization.
 B. On own, identifies opportunities to develop services within or outside the organization taking risks to pursue a benefit, advantage or savings for the organization.
 C. Anticipates and identifies potential or actual problems relating to the achievement of program goals and provides corrective actions and/or develops contingency plans.
 D. Develops leadership and professional skills by participating in professional, management or community activities, or serving on multi-functional committees.
 E. Takes initiative to organize the workload, balancing the interests and needs of clients and readjusting/adapting the workload and priorities to unforeseen demands and emergencies.
 F. None of the above
15. Select the statements that describe your level of experience as they pertain to your interpersonal communication skills that you routinely apply at work.:
 A. Explain technical issues to a variety of individuals from within and outside of your agency or organization.
 B. Establish and maintain working relationships with representatives of other organizations.
 C. Provide advice, guidance, or direction to staff on regulations and procedures.
 D. Clarify requirements, exchange routine information, and obtain missing information.
 E. Negotiate issues among parties with differing interests to gain agreement on changes affecting the program or work product.
 F. Resolve conflicts by persuading others to accept new conditions, procedures, or techniques.
 G. Interact in situations where shifts in priorities, work assignments, or deadlines occur frequently due to delays or unexpected events.
 H. None of the above.
16. Your rating is subject to verification based on the application materials that you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. A deliberate attempt to falsify information on your application materials is grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment. Please choose the appropriate response below:

 A. I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 B. I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected