Position Title
SUPERVISORY POLICE OFFICER (Inspector)
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
25-MINT-12790362 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Thursday, September 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5




 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
6. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Specialized experience for the TR-12 (GS-12 equivalent) is defined as one year of experience at the TR-10 (GS-11 equivalent) level, or equivalent that is directly related to the position and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as experience:

- Supervising personnel in a law enforcement environment that has provided experience in the areas of laws, regulations, law enforcement operations, practices and techniques and involved responsibility for assessing, contributing to and administering an inspection program for police operations.
 A. I possess at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the TR-10 level (GS-11 equivalent).
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
2. Select the following statement(s) that best describe your ability to make sound, well-informed and objective decisions.
 A. I have identified and evaluated alternatives to decisions.
 B. I have made sound and timely decisions in uncertain situations.
 C. I have made decisions involving complex issues that impact the work and outcomes of a branch or division of my organization.
 D. I have made complex decisions with little or no supervisory review.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
3. Select the statement(s) that best describe your experience with law enforcement programs.
 A. I have interpreted higher-level policy guidance for the purpose of establishing operating requirements or procedures.
 B. I have monitored and/or controlled facilities to ensure physical security requirements are met.
 C. I have implemented and monitored policies, instructions and procedures for safeguarding an organization at the branch or division level.
 D. I have interpreted policies and directives to develop, implement and maintain an effective security program.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Do you have experience leading projects, teams or programs related to law enforcement issues?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please indicate where in your resume the experience can be found by indicating the name of your employer(s) and the date(s) of your employment. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Do you have experience in preparing short term police program development plans?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Please indicate where in your resume the experience can be found by indicating the name of your employer(s) and the date(s) of your employment. (limit 250 characters)
8. Please indicate all of the following which describe your experience supervising personnel in a law enforcement environment. Check all that apply.
 A. Planned, organized, and/or prioritized assignments.
 B. Evaluating work performance.
 C. Providing feedback to others.
 D. Ensuring that staff is properly trained, developed and coached.
 E. Recognizing and rewarding positive results.
 F. Taking corrective action when needed.
 G. None of the above.
9. Please indicate which of the following best describes your ability to plan and execute work.
 A. I have identified actions to be taken for accomplishing assigned work and broken the assigned actions into work components.
 B. I have accomplished work planned by the supervisor, and met critical deadlines.
 C. I have independently identified objectives based on program priorities, and identified schedules, milestones, and resources required to accomplish the work.
 D. None of the above.
10. Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience as a supervisor of a police force.
 A. I have planned, organized, and/or prioritized assignments.
 B. I have developed and implemented operating policies and procedures.
 C. I have set goals and helped my team meet those goals.
 D. I have directed a variety of complex program activities at the branch level.
 E. I have had experience supervising lower level supervisors.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
11. Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience in training and mentoring others in a police environment.
 A. I have trained other staff to ensure proper operation and use of systems and equipment.
 B. I have provided constructive feedback and acted as a mentor.
 C. I have helped others learn through formal or informal methods.
 D. I have identified training needs and made recommendations.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
12. Please indicate all of the following which describe your experience supervising personnel in a law enforcement environment.
 A. Evaluating work performance.
 B. Providing feedback to others.
 C. Ensuring that staff is properly trained, developed and coached.
 D. Recognizing and rewarding positive results.
 E. Taking corrective action when needed.
 F. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. Have you performed protection related duties where you were required to gather and analyze facts, draw conclusions and devise practical solutions to problems?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Please indicate where in your resume the experience can be found by indicating the name of your employer and the dates you were employed. (limit 250 characters)
15. Choose which of the following best describes your experience and skill in analyzing investigative reports.
 A. I have independently analyzed the following types of reports generated by officers - incident, intelligence, and preliminary investigative reports and identified the issues raise and recommended a course of action.
 B. I have analyzed incident, intelligence, and preliminary investigative reports, and recommended a course of action.
 C. I have reviewed incident, intelligence, and investigative reports.
 D. None of the above.
16. Choose all statement(s) that describe your experience with interpersonal communication:
 A. I have facilitated the resolution of competing and conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet a program objective.
 B. I have interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events, arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. I have provided direction, guidance or instruction to support staff or new professional staff.
 D. I have persuaded others to adopt new methods, procedures or techniques in order to improve operations.
 E. I have defended recommendations on controversial issues to senior management.
 F. I have independently planned, hosted and conducted meetings.
 G. I have diffused confrontational contacts with people who are difficult, hostile or distressed.
 H. None of the above.
17. Please indicate which of the following best describes your ability to investigate, analyze facts, and prepare reports.
 A. I have conducted full investigations of minor crimes, accidents, and public safety incidents.
 B. I have collected information on common law enforcement or public safety incidents, e.g., prepared reports on serious traffic accidents or workplace or domestic disturbances.
 C. I have interviewed victims of a crime, witnesses about traffic violations or office workers about theft of office equipment (or similar incidents).
 D. None of the above.
18. Choose all statement(s) that describe the communication services you have provided.
 A. I have maintained contacts and acted as liaison with law enforcement or outside agencies in order to convey detailed information about policies or regulations.
 B. I have explained technical or other complex information orally.
 C. I have promoted, developed and maintained good working relationships with key individuals and/or groups.
 D. I have served as a liaison making contact with a variety of individuals for the purpose of conveying sensitive information.
 E. I have responded verbally to inquiries or requests for information.
 F. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected