Position Title
Nurse (Clinical)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJH 25 12813003 DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 13, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a requirement to lift up to 30 lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires Basic Life Support training certification from, or in accordance with, the American Heart Association and American Red Cross. Current Advanced Life Support or other advanced certification does not supersede BLS completion. Do you have, or are you willing to obtain and maintain BLS certification?
 Yes
 No


4.
Employees assigned to a medical treatment facility are required to be screened for applicable immunizations or pre-existing immunity based on occupational risk, regardless of job series. This position is subject to screening and update of required immunizations unless exempted for medical or administrative reasons in accordance with Army Regulation 40-562, Chapters 3 and 4. A job offer to an applicant who is not a current employee subject to this requirement will be withdrawn if the candidate refuses to undergo immunization screening. Are you willing to consent to immunization screening and receive missing immunizations or submit required documentation to request exemption?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position has a mandatory seasonal influenza vaccination requirement and is subject to annual vaccination. A candidate tentatively selected for appointment to this position will be required to sign a statement consenting to annual seasonal influenza vaccination. A job offer to an applicant who is not a current employee subject to this requirement will be withdrawn if the candidate refuses to agree to undergo seasonal influenza vaccinations for other than medical or religious reasons. Such reasons must be supported by an acceptable statement from a credible, verifiable source. Are you willing to consent to, and receive seasonal influenza vaccinations or submit required documentation to request exemption?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Nurse (Clinical) position with the Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Clinical) at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained OR I have a degree from a Foreign Nursing School that is accompanied by an official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools certification.)
 I do not meet the basic requirement above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. I have degree or diploma from a professional nursing program approved by the legally designated State accrediting agency at the time the program was completed. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 I do not meet either requirement described above.


2.
The Nurse (Clinical) occupation requires a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; and you must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. Do you possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; and have passed the National Council Licensure Examination? (Note: You must attach a copy of your license.)

 Yes.
 I have not passed the National Council Licensure Examination as stated above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. I have an active, current registration as a professional nurse in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Clinical) at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a diploma, associate degree, or bachelor's degree in Nursing from a professional nursing program and possession of at least one full year of professional nursing experience (equivalent to the GS-9 grade level or above) which includes providing nursing care to patients, educating patients or staff, and administering medications. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a PhD or equivalent doctoral degree from a professional nursing educational program or related medical science field. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience AND education as described in A AND B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not meet any of the qualification requirements above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. I have completed all requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education from a professional nursing program. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙