Position Title
Loan Assistant/Specialist (Agricultural)
Agency
Farm Service Agency
Announcement Number
FSA-25-12782561-MP-VT-JLF Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 19, 2025 to Tuesday, September 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current Farm Service Agency employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Farm Service Agency employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former permanent Farm Service Agency County employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Middlebury, VT
 B. Saint Albans, VT
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
5
7
9
11
3. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
4. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
7. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
8. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Loan Assistant/Specialist (Agricultural) GS-1165 Position with the US Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency (FSA). Please respond to the following questions. Mark only one response for each question. Any experience claimed in response to the following questions MUST be supported by information in your application (resume or any other written format). This information must be SPECIFIC (i.e., duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments). Failure to provide this supporting documentation may result in receipt of a lower or ineligible rating. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience.).
1. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes the highest level of experience and/or education you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-5, Loan Assistant (Agricultural) work. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour work week. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience.)

 A. I have three years of progressively responsible general work experience with one year of that experience equivalent to at least the GS-04 grade level, which includes gathering and analyzing facts and figures and presenting information or conclusions in clear oral and written language; OR that provided a knowledge of the principles of financial analysis or insurance laws, such as contract, property, life casualty, or marine insurance.
 B. I have successfully completed a full four-year course of study leading to a bachelor’s degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position, such as, finance, business administration, economics, accounting, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit, law, statistics, or another field related to the position such as agriculture, agricultural economics, farm, livestock, ranch management or rural sociology. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the general experience as described in A, but less than three years; and I have some education as described in B, but less than the required four years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 36. Then, divide your semester hours of education by 120. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes the highest level of experience and/or education you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-7, Loan Assistant (Agricultural) work. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour work week. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience.)
 A. I possess at least one full-time year of specialized work experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service or private sector. This experience demonstrated basic knowledge of loan examining and/or servicing principles, procedures and techniques as they apply to investigation, analysis and evaluation of financial factors and credit risks in granting and servicing of agricultural loans. In addition, this experience demonstrated basic knowledge of farm operations, land use and value, production of various crops and livestock, and prices and markets in the farming area.
 B. I have Superior Academic Achievement from an accredited college or university with a bachelor's degree in finance, business administration, economics, accounting, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit, law, statistics, or another field related to the position, such as agriculture, agricultural economics, farm, livestock or ranch management, or rural sociology with either: 1) a grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 based on a 4.0 scale; 2) a 3.5 GPA based on a 4.0 scale for required courses completed in a major field of study during the last two years of undergraduate study; 3) class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college; 4) membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College Honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies.
 C. I have completed one year of graduate education OR I possess a master's degree or higher graduate degree with a major in finance, business administration, economics, accounting, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit, law, statistics, or another field related to the position such as agriculture, agricultural economics, farm, livestock, ranch management or rural sociology.
 D. I have less than the full amount of graduate education and less than the amount of specialized experience, but I have a combination of graduate education and specialized experience.
 E. I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position.
3. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes the highest level of experience and/or education you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-9, Loan Specialist (Agricultural) work. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience.)
 A. I have at least one full-time year of specialized work experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service or private sector that demonstrated competence in agricultural loans. This experience may have been gained in such work as reviewing and passing upon applications for agricultural loans; servicing an agricultural loan portfolio of a bank or other loan association; or similar work. I have demonstrated knowledge of credit principles and practices to assess the fundamental soundness of individual loans by independently examining applications, supporting documents, and credit reports, and maintaining servicing activities on small agricultural loans. In addition, my experience demonstrated knowledge and understanding of farm operations, land use and value, production of various crops and livestock, and prices and markets in the farming area where loans are made and serviced.
 B. I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as finance, business administration, economics, accounting, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit, law, statistics, or other fields related to the position such as agriculture, agricultural economics, farm, livestock or ranch management, or rural sociology. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position.
4. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes the highest level of experience and/or education you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-11, Loan Specialist (Agricultural) work. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience.)
 A. I have at least one full-time year of specialized work experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service that demonstrated competence in agricultural loans. This experience may have been gained in such work as reviewing and passing upon applications for a limited number and variety of agricultural operations (i.e., single owner, single enterprise operation, farm equipment and machinery, etc.); servicing an agricultural loan portfolio of a bank or other loan association. In addition, my experience demonstrated knowledge and understanding of the technicalities of farm financing and credit and a general working knowledge of farm operations, land use and value, production of various crops and livestock, and prices and markets in the farming area where loans are made and serviced.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as finance, business administration, economics, accounting, insurance, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit law, real estate operations, statistics, or another field related to the position, such as agriculture, agricultural economics, farm, livestock or ranch management, or rural sociology. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. My education and/or experience are not described in any of the responses above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. This position requires authority to approve agricultural loans. Do you have, or have you had authority to approve agricultural loans? (Note: applicants must provide proof of loan approval authority).
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have delegated loan approval authority from the Farm Service Agency?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you have two or more years of experience in agricultural lending?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you have experience volunteering for or working with federal, state, county, private, commercial, or non-profit organizations in matters related to agricultural production? (e.g. working as a temporary employee or volunteer in a Farm Service Agency office, or serving as an officer or member in FFA, Stockgrowers, or other agricultural club or organization).
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Do you have hands-on experience in the field of agriculture? (e.g. management of a farm or working as a farm laborer).
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Do you have education in the field of agriculture? (e.g. completion of a degree in an agricultural business, agricultural sciences, animal science, crop science, and farm and ranch management).
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. From the description below, choose the response that best describes your level of knowledge of agricultural production practices.
 A. In addition to being knowledgeable about production costs, rates, practices, health and disease control measures, I have performed work tasks relating to customary crop and livestock production practices, contract provisions, and performance expectations for specialty and integrated crop and livestock operations.
 B. To perform my work, I have applied knowledge about customary crop and livestock production practices such as typical costs of production (e.g., fuel, fertilizer, chemical, veterinary, seed, feed, repair, etc.) per unit, typical rates of production, accepted or normal tillage and crop rotation practices, proven livestock production practices, normal health and disease control measures for the most prevalent enterprises, etc.
 C. I have performed work tasks relating to agricultural lending or an agricultural program.
 D. I am familiar with livestock, crop, fruit and vegetable production practices (e.g., 4-H, Future Farmers of America, education, etc.).
 E. None of the above.
12. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your knowledge of crop and/or livestock marketing alternatives.
 A. I have made decisions or advised producers regarding market availability and volatility relating to crop/livestock enterprises.
 B. I have experience as an owner/operator of a farm and conducted market research to obtain the maximum return from production
 C. I have considered marketing alternatives offered by brokerage or similar firm and understood the risks associated with these marketing alternatives.
 D. I have made financial and operating decisions regarding a personal business.
 E. None of the above.
13. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best indicates your knowledge and experience in applying credit principles and practices.
 A. I have compiled and evaluated cash flow, financial statements, statement of earnings, credit reports, etc. to assess capacity to operate a profitable enterprise.
 B. I have researched financial regulations and policies to determine the most effective approach in resolving a financial problem, providing options and recommendations to a customer.
 C. I have prepared cash flow, financial statements, and statement of earnings for myself or other individuals.
 D. I have reviewed cash flow, financial statements, and statement of earnings in a learning setting to obtain knowledge and understanding of credit principles and practices.
 E. None of the above.
14. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your knowledge and experience in planning, developing and coordinating loan programs involving highly diverse and complex agricultural commodities and enterprises.
 A. I have performed loan work involving a variety of borrowers and broadly diverse agricultural commodities and enterprises (e.g., involving numerous types of commodities including both crops and/or livestock enterprises involving entity operations or value-added producers.)
 B. I have performed loan making/servicing on moderately diverse farm operations (e.g., sole proprietorship involving various types of commodities including crops and livestock.)
 C. I have determined soundness of loans under an agricultural loan program (i.e., credit worthiness of borrower, repayment ability, estimated projected income, subordinations, non-disturbance clause, schedule repayments, reviews, leases, etc.)
 D. I possess no agricultural lending experience; however, I possess a masters or higher-level graduate degree with a major in finance, accounting, economics or business administration, agricultural business, agricultural sciences, animal science, crop science, or farm and ranch management.
 E. None of the above.
15. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience applying agricultural loan program policy and requirements.
 A. I have applied knowledge of FSA policies and regulations to analyze integrated agricultural financial statements from farmers, partnerships, agricultural corporations, and limited liability corporations.
 B. I have applied a wide range of financial management principles and practices to analyze integrated financial statements from farmers, partnerships, agricultural corporations, and limited liability corporations.
 C. I have gathered and evaluated relevant financial and repayment information to determine whether payment adjustments were warranted.
 D. I have applied policies and regulations to make and service small agricultural/farm loans, i.e. equipment.
 E. None of the above.
16. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your financial practices in relation to agricultural loan servicing.
 A. I have provided technical advice to applicants and borrowers on the expansion, diversification, and use of farms, and the planning, projecting, and analyzing of farming operations and future cash flows.
 B. I have evaluated financial and credit risk factors involved in approving direct and guaranteed agricultural loans.
 C. I have provided credit counseling and determined feasibility of borrower graduation to private lending sources.
 D. I have provided technical and administrative support to individual and entity borrowers to assist in maintaining compliance with loan, conservation and commodity program requirements.
 E. None of the above.
17. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience researching, interpreting and applying agricultural or lending regulations.
 A. I have researched, interpreted, and applied various regulations, legislation and other procedure to inform applicants/borrowers of the requirements of a loan program.
 B. I have demonstrated work or educational experience in researching, interpreting, and applying agricultural lending regulations.
 C. I have gathered information and selected the appropriate guideline, reference or procedure to complete assignments related to agriculture or lending.
 D. I have prepared research papers on topics related to an agricultural or financial/business management field.
 E. None of the above.
18. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to effectively communicate with representatives of agricultural agencies, civic groups, farmers and the general public.
 A. I have provided advice and explained technical farm loan program rules and regulations to assist borrowers in completing loan applications.
 B. I have provided guidance and assistance to explain rules and regulations in support of making a loan.
 C. I have presented information and acted as a resource for agricultural related topics to farm groups such as the Future Farmers of America, Farm Bureau, Corn Growers’ Association, Cattlemen’s Association, etc.
 D. I have handled questions from the public and peer groups regarding agricultural or financial policies and procedures.
 E. None of the above.
19. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to communicate.

 A. I have conducted formal stand up training workshops or classes, engaging the audience and obtaining feedback.
 B. I have presented information to groups in an informal setting.
 C. I have done both A & B.
 D. I have communicated with individuals on a one-on-one basis.
 E. None of the above.
20. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to maintain cooperative relationships and recommending ways to improve access to programs through community outreach efforts and removal of barriers.

 A. I have improved access to agency programs through activities including community outreach efforts and maintain communication and cooperative relationships with producers, lenders, commercial and educational institutions, rural community groups, and other Federal State and local agencies.
 B. I have conducted, or made presentations at, public meetings with various agricultural groups and associations, or performed public relations and outreach activities.
 C. I have conducted outreach efforts to meet the needs of socially disadvantaged and minority applicants and borrowers.
 D. I have participated in diversity activities and community activities.
 E. None of the above.
21. From the description below, choose the response that best describes your experience communicating in writing with a variety of individuals/groups.

 A. I have written narratives to support a business plan or term paper on an agricultural, financial, or agricultural business topic.
 B. I have prepared written information on new procedures, techniques and trends in the agricultural and/or financial management field.
 C. I have developed correspondence and/or written papers.
 D. I have responded in writing to inquiries or requests for information.
 E. None of the above.
22. From the description below, choose the response that best describes your ability to gather and analyze facts and figures.

 A. I have gathered market values on specific agricultural commodities from various sources to analyze the profitability of new and existing agricultural operations.
 B. I have applied accounting theories, practices, and principles to analyze financial reports.
 C. I have compiled financial records and obtained missing information for loan processing.
 D. I have identified discrepancies in various accounts/records and taken action to correct errors or adjust entries.
 E. None of the above.
23. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience in evaluating the managerial skills of farmers/ranchers.

 A. I am considered a technical expert in identifying managerial weaknesses and developing an action plan for overcoming farm management weaknesses.
 B. I have completed numerous analyzes of complex and diverse farming operations to determine the managerial strengths/weaknesses and developed loan terms or borrower assessments to help customers become successful.
 C. I have provided loan supervision and oversight to individual and group borrowers to assist in maintaining compliance with loan requirements.
 D. I have recommended borrower training to customers and refer them to another agency/individual to assist in identifying and overcoming managerial weaknesses.
 E. None of the above.
24. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience to effectively handle conflicts and negotiations.

 A. I have independently persuaded others to adopt solutions to resolve conflict situations.
 B. I have assisted in identifying conflict situations between individuals and steered them to the appropriate people and resources to help those individuals work out their issues.
 C. I have helped to de-escalate conflict between others and helped to defuse tension in hostile situations.
 D. I have performed my work tasks in a way that generates minimal conflict with my peers.
 E. None of the above.
25. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best demonstrates your commitment to customer service.

 A. I have taken proactive steps to prevent future issues or problems for the customer.
 B. I have sought out information about the needs of the customer to address their concerns.
 C. I have corrected customer problems promptly without becoming defensive.
 D. I have been accessible and regularly updated and shared pertinent information with customers.
 E. None of the above.
26. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected