Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12785919-25-RLW Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 19, 2025 to Thursday, August 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran,  AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference; OR,
are eligible for derived preference as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. If applying as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran eligible for derived preference you must provide acceptable documentation of your preference eligibility as outlined on the SF-15 form.  *Note current Federal employees must also meet Time-in-Grade requirements.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
recently separated (within the past 3 years); OR,
are a disabled veteran; OR,
served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition; OR,
received an Armed Forces Service Medal?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, you must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Please choose the answers below that best describe your employment and experience. Note: Current VA employees, please ensure you include with your application packet your most recent SF50 that indicates your present pay grade and any additional required to show your time of specialized experience. READ ENTIRE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS BEFORE CHOOSING YOUR RESPONSE
1. To help us determine your eligibility for this announcement, please choose the option below that best describes your status for applying.
 A. I am a current permanent employee of The Department of Veterans Affairs assigned to the Wilkes-Barre VAMC
 B. I am not a current permanent Department of Veterans Affairs employee assigned to Wilkes-Barre VAMC
2. Specialized Experience GS-11: You must meet the specialized experience requirement for this position by demonstrating one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-09. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: experience in emergency management where you applied your knowledge of the laws, guidelines and policies governing various emergency management programs and operations to assist in developing, executing, and analyzing an emergency management program; applying analytical data and evaluation methods to determine program compliance with emergency preparedness and management rules and regulations; applying a working knowledge of a variety of emergency, contingency and operations plans, policies, and directives to provide advice and assistance; applying basic data gathering methodologies to collect various types of information; using and managing database programs; working in an organization formulating, preparing, coordinating, and maintaining a variety of contingency plans, policies, directives, and regulations developed for emergency / disaster situations or similar type programs.

Choose the option that best fits your qualifying experience
 A. I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 which is directly related to the work of the position. Experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position by training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: experience in emergency management where you applied your knowledge of the laws, guidelines and policies governing various emergency management programs and operations to assist in developing, executing, and analyzing an emergency management program; applying analytical data and evaluation methods to determine program compliance with emergency preparedness and management rules and regulations; applying a working knowledge of a variety of emergency, contingency and operations plans, policies, and directives to provide advice and assistance; applying basic data gathering methodologies to collect various types of information; using and managing database programs; working in an organization formulating, preparing, coordinating, and maintaining a variety of contingency plans, policies, directives, and regulations developed for emergency / disaster situations or similar type programs.
 B. I am requesting to qualify based on my education for this position and I possess a:
 C. D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or
 D. M., if related TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUIRED IF USING EDUCATION TO QUALIFY
 E. I am using a Combination of Graduate Education and Professional Experience. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate level education and specialized experience to meet total experience requirements. (Only graduate level education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience. Education requirements at the GS-09 level are: master's or equivalent graduate degree; or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related) TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUIRED IF USING EDUCATION TO QUALIFY
 F. I do not meet the specialized experience requirement
3. GS-11 Time-in-Grade Requirement: Current VA employees who have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. For this vacancy, applicants must have held GS-09 or higher for at least 52 weeks to be eligible for the GS-11 grade level. If you are a Wage Grade employee, this question does not apply to you. 

SF 50 MUST BE DATED WITHIN THE LAST YEAR  TO BE CONSIDERED

Please select the response below which most accurately describes your time-in-grade.

YOU MUST INCLUDE APPROPRIATE SF-50s AS STATED IN THE ANNOUNCEMENT OR YOU WILL BE FOUND INELIGIBLE
 A. I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or I am currently a GS-11 or higher with SF 50 dated within one year of this annoncement.
 B. This restriction does not apply to me because I am a Wage Grade employee
 C. This restriction applies to me, but I do not meet the requirements
4. Due to the travel requirement, this position requires you to have and maintain a valid state issued motor vehicle operator's license. Please choose the best answer below that describes your situation.

 A. I currently have and can maintain a valid state issued motor vehicle operator's license
 B. I do not currently have a valid state issued motor vehicle operator's license
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected