Position Title
Supervisory Immigration Services Officer (Section Chief)
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12767028-POO-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 21, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who has held, or currently holds, a permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?  

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
 Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 5 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
3. I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-14 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the  GS-14. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the  GS-13 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply
4. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience measuring workload based on personnel requirements?
 A. I completed education and/or training related to measuring workloads but do not have professional experience.
 B. I independently monitored my workload to ensure personnel shortcomings and workload requirements were met.
 C. I participated in a work group or shared team to devise and monitor workload and personnel balances to accomplish organizational needs.
 D. I served as a primary contributor by monitoring and advising the management of my workload and the workload of others
 E. I developed a method of tracking workload demands in contrast to employee ratios based on varied levels of experience and complexity.
 F. I provided feedback on my workload balance strategic efforts and provided feedback for process improvement.
 G. None of the above
5. Select the tasks you have performed to support a human resource office with employees represented by a labor union.
 A. Developed standard operating procedures on local office policy
 B. Developed guidance documents to supplement or interpret union contracts
 C. Worked with labor employee relations team to address employee concerns presented to the union
 D. Worked with attorneys or chief counsel to address employee concerns presented to the union
 E. Drafted response to employee grievance
 F. Drafted settlement agreement in response to an employee grievance
 G. Drafted letters to address employee performance or misconduct
 H. Negotiated labor contracts or supplemental agreements
 I. None of the above
6. Select the practices that you have used to successfully manage human resources in your agency or organization.
 A. I have undertaken capacity planning to identify jobs that need to be filled in the short, medium, and long term.
 B. I have identified and reduced discrepancies between required and available competencies among my staff by successfully implementing employee training and professional development plans.
 C. I have ensured that my employees’ workload over the short, medium, and long term is realistic and sustainable by effectively monitoring employees’ progress and shifting assignments when needed.
 D. I have implemented a performance management program that includes frequent feedback to my employees so that they have a better understanding of their progress and can feel more engaged in their work.
 E. I have taken courses or training on human resource management.
 F. None of the above.
7. I have set stretch goals (e.g., goals that are beyond current capabilities) for employees that contain measurable milestones to help them define a career path.
 A. True
 B. False
8. Select all the steps you have followed when dealing with an employee who is underperforming or not meeting performance goals:
 A. I began with positive feedback so that the employee understands the actions I want to reinforce.
 B. I described the performance problem to the employee by focusing on the tasks that needed improvement, not on the employee.
 C. I use specific examples of underperformance.
 D. I asked the employee for help in achieving the goal of increasing his/her effectiveness as a contributor to the agency or organization.
 E. I determined the barriers to the employee’s ability to perform at the expected level and asked whether the employee needed my help to remove them (e.g., time, training, tools, etc.)
 F. The employee and I agreed on a written action plan that included core goals that the employee must meet to achieve the expected performance level.
 G. I do not have any experience managing employee performance.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. Have you ever evaluated the work performance of subordinates?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Select the tasks you have performed to advise senior leadership on statutory and regulatory changes that impact immigration policies.
 A. I have coordinated briefings, presentations, and assessments to senior leadership on statutory and regulatory changes that impact immigration policies or related procedures
 B. I have presented briefings on statutory and regulatory changes that impact immigration policies to senior leadership with my supervisor’s instructions and guidance.
 C. I have independently drafted and presented briefing materials for senior leadership on the impact of statutory and regulatory changes on immigration policies or related procedures.
 D. None of the above
11. Which sources have you researched to identify and detect Immigration Fraud?
 A. Immigration and Nationality Act.
 B. Law Enforcement databases.
 C. Obtained information from other agencies.
 D. National Criminal Information Center (NCIC).
 E. Treasury Enforcement Communication System (TECS).
 F. Interviews and sworn statements.
 G. None of the above.
12. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience adjudicating immigration benefits applications?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to adjudicating immigration benefits applications.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to adjudicating immigration benefits applications, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I applied immigration laws, rules, and regulations while under supervision.
 D. I independently applied immigration laws, rules, and regulations to recommend adjudication results.
 E. I independently adjudicated immigration benefits and wrote final determinations to support my findings.
13. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers?
 A. I have not had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents.
 B. I have had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 C. I have developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers under close supervision to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have independently developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
14. Which choice best describes your highest level of experience adjudicating immigration benefits?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education in adjudicating immigration benefits.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to adjudicating immigration benefits but do not yet have professional experience.
 C. I provided data to immigration services officers who were responsible for adjudication.
 D. I reviewed immigration benefits applications for completion and accuracy.
 E. I adjudicated immigration benefits applications.
15. Which activities have you performed to provide assistance to immigration personnel?
 A. Identified individuals who posed a threat to national security.
 B. Prosecuted those who committed fraud while seeking services and benefits.
 C. Analyzed petitions and applications to discern fraud patterns.
 D. Participated in fact finding and supported enforcement personnel when information indicated fraud.
 E. Granted applications based on review of supporting documentation, data derived from a systems search, and/or evidence generated by hearings or interviews.
 F. Referred cases to appropriate channels where fraud was suspected.
 G. None of the above.
16. Which actions have you completed to implement strategic initiatives (e.g. enterprise-wide hiring reform, improving operating processes, developmental programs)?
 A. Participated in the implementation of a strategic initiative with organization-wide implications.
 B. Led a working group focused on implementation of an organization-wide strategic initiative.
 C. Developed a course of action (e.g., road map, project plan) for a strategic initiative.
 D. Identified risks or barriers to successful achievement for a strategic initiative.
 E. Reported on the progress of a strategic achievement to leadership (e.g., formal briefings, progress reports).
 F. Revised a course of action to meet a strategic goal.
 G. None of the above.
17. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interacting with law enforcement entities?
 A. I analyzed law enforcement information received indirectly and incorporated it into decision-making.
 B. I have been a point of contact for law enforcement entities.
 C. I cultivated relationships with law enforcement entities to promote inter-agency collaboration.
 D. I have no experience, training, or education related to interacting with law enforcement entities.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to interacting with law enforcement entities, but do not have professional experience.
18. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience enhancing the effectiveness of immigration benefits policies and programs?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to enhancing immigration benefits policies and programs.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to making immigration benefits programs effective, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I provided guidance and interpretation on policy matters relating to immigration benefits.
 D. I performed analytical and evaluative work associated with immigration program activities.
 E. I researched and developed new policies and procedures.
19. Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience analyzing current procedures related to immigration benefits.
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to analyzing procedures for immigration benefits.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to analyzing procedures for immigration benefits, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I analyzed immigration benefit procedures to determine where inefficiencies exist.
 D. I analyzed immigration benefit procedures and made recommendations to management on ways to improve practices.
 E. I analyzed immigration benefit procedures and independently implemented changes that improved efficiency.
20. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
21. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected