Position Title
Unit Aviation Manager (Fire) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
FADHA-25-12767103-BM Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Survey Questions
1. My resume contains hours worked per week for each season and position held. For example, 1 year of experience is equivalent to 12 months at 40 hours per week (full-time). Part-time hours are prorated. I understand that I will not receive any credit for a position listed that does not include hours worked per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.
1. I possess a valid Driver's License.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I qualify for the GS-09 because:

 A. I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-07 in the Federal service I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience.
 B. I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree with a major study in one of the following fields of study: accounting, business administration, business or commercial law, commerce, economics, engineering, finance, industrial management, statistics, traffic, management, transportation, motor mechanics, or other fields related to the position.
 C. I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described above.
 D. I do not meet any of the above responses.
3. Identify the professional aviation work related to Fire/Fuels Management Support you have performed on the job:

 A. Advise fire management officers on aircraft performance, capabilities, limitations, cost-effectiveness, and support requirements for firefighting aircraft.
 B. Conduct Fire Readiness Reviews of fire helicopter and fire-retardant bases.
 C. Visit permanent and temporary airbases during periods of high fire activity to observe operations, resolve problems, and provide recommendations for safety and improvement.
 D. Coordinate with local, regional, and national fire dispatch/coordination offices and/or cooperating agencies or equivalent to establish aircraft priorities, availability, placement, and efficient use of firefighting aircraft.
 E. Serve on an Incident Management Team or as miscellaneous overhead in the National Interagency Incident Management System (NIIMS).
 F. None of the above
4. Indicate your experience level working with Single Engine Air Tankers (SEAT).

 A. I am considered an expert in this field, working with all aspects of the Single Engine Air Tanker program at a national, state, and local levels. I have performed as a SEAT Coordinator (SECO) in the field or at NIFC.
 B. I am or have been a Single Engine Airtanker Manager for an Exclusive Use contract and am very familiar with all aspects of the program.
 C. I am or have been a Single Engine Airtanker Manager and have completed multiple fire assignments as a manager with various types of aircraft.
 D. I am familiar with the Single Engine Airtanker Program but am not a Single Engine Air Tanker Manager.
 E. None of the above.
5. Select the statement that best describes your experience, education or training in firefighting coordination and mobilization.

 A. I am considered the primary individual who writes, reviews, and distributes all of the aviation policy documents for my unit.
 B. I have written some aviation policy for my unit, and I am considered an excellent source of knowledge for aviation policy.
 C. I have a good working knowledge of aviation policy and assist with writing aviation policy for my unit.
 D. I have not written any aviation policy for my unit.
6. Indicate your level of experience managing air base facilities.

 A. Multi-frequency radios/multi-line telephones.
 B. Computers/file systems.
 C. General public/news media.
 D. Analyzing situations/selecting alternatives.
 E. Involved in multiple ?all risk requests? where priorities must be determined by the nature of the situation.
 F. None of the above.
7. Indicate your level of understanding of general aviation policies for federal and state agencies.

 A. I have an excellent understanding of general aviation policies for federal and state agencies or equivalent, strive to stay current with policy changes and updates, and have experience in developing policy at a national level.
 B. I have an excellent understanding of general aviation policies for federal and state agencies or equivalent and strive to stay current with policy changes and updates.
 C. I have a good working knowledge of general aviation policies for federal and state agencies or equivalent, know where to find current updates and changes to policy.
 D. I have a limited knowledge of BLM general aviation policies for federal and state agencies or equivalent.
 E. None of the above.
8. Indicate the following tasks related to aviation safety and accident prevention that you have performed as part of a job:

 A. Develop an aviation safety plan for an organization.
 B. Implement an aviation safety plan for an organization.
 C. Prepare and/or review Special Use Safety Plans for specific flights and projects to insure hazard and risk mitigation.
 D. Perform risk management assessments of on-going activities, proposed aviation missions, and/or over-all program standards.
 E. Analyze aviation program performance and systems to identify deficiencies.
 F. Initiate change in aviation organizational safety procedures and requirements to improve program performance and systems.
 G. Prepare Aviation Incident/Accident Response Guide for an organization.
 H. Update and disseminate Aviation Incident/Accident Response Guide for use in an organization.
 I. Provide guidance on the use of aircraft during Search and Rescue activities.
 J. Serve as the focal point for submission and review of aviation incident/hazard reports.
 K. Recommend corrective action to management and staff to remedy situations identified in incident/hazard reports.
 L. Provide follow-up on aviation incident/hazard reports to ensure unsafe conditions and operations are rectified.
 M. Prepare unit aviation incident/hazard reports summary, analysis, and recommendations on an annual basis.
 N. Provide expertise in the operational planning of aviation activities on or near Military Training Routes or within Special Use Airspace.
 O. Coordinate with military, Federal Aviation Administration, and other agency officials to deconflict airspace over public lands.
 P. Coordinate with military, Federal Aviation Administration, and other agency officials to prepare cooperative airspace management agreements.
 Q. Perform aviation safety reviews in the field periodically or spontaneously.
 R. Serve as a member of aviation safety teams and accident investigation teams.
 S. None of the above
9. Select the answer that best describes your level of training to be an instructor for Aviation courses.

 A. I have successfully completed a Facilitative Instructor class or Aviation Train-the-Trainer course and acted as a lead instructor in state or regional level classes.
 B. I have successfully completed a Facilitative Instructor class or Aviation Train-the-Trainer course and acted as a lead instructor in local level classes.
 C. I have successfully completed a Facilitative Instructor class or Aviation Train-the-Trainer course and acted as a unit instructor in local level classes.
 D. I have no formal instructor training but have acted as a unit level instructor in local classes.
 E. I have no instructor training or experience.
10. I am currently certified as a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR)/Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR).

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Select the answer that best describes your level of experience administering Federal Aviation contracts.

 A. I have functioned as a Contracting Officer`s Representative (COR) on aviation contracts; or as a contract Project Inspector (PI) for Exclusive Use fire aircraft contracts; or as Exclusive Use Single Engine Air Tanker (SEAT) Manager or Helicopter Manager.
 B. I have functioned as a Project Inspector (PI) on aviation contracts; or am qualified as a Call-When-Needed (CWN) SEAT or Helicopter Manager; or I am experienced as a Project Aviation Manager or Helicopter Manager on several resource management aviation projects.
 C. I have some experience working with aviation contracts and contractors as a trainee CWN SEAT Manager or Helicopter Manager.
 D. I have no experience administering aviation contracts.
12. Identify the procedures you perform as a regular part of your work with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) airspace system:

 A. Provide clearances into restricted airspace in emergency incident areas.
 B. Approve restricted airspace entry for media, cooperators, or military aircraft.
 C. Perform airspace coordination duties under controlled conditions.
 D. Coordinate restricted airspace entry for media, cooperators, or military aircraft.
 E. Develop and/or update operating agreements with local FAA or military operations.
 F. Negotiate agreements on joint use of restricted or special use military airspace to meet unit?s objectives.
 G. Utilize FAA, National Transportation Safety Board, or aircraft services manuals and guidance for aviation operations.
 H. None of the above.
13. Indicate your level of experience with airspace management.

 A. I am considered an expert in the airspace management field and support national incidents as an Airspace Coordinator or Airspace Manager.
 B. I actively participate with airspace management groups on a regular basis, coordinating the use of airspace over a large geographical area with multiple agencies.
 C. I have a good working knowledge of airspace management and participate in the de-confliction procedures established for my area with our aircraft.
 D. I understand the need to manage or de-conflict the airspace between multiple agencies using the airspace, but I do not directly participate in the procedures established for my area.
 E. None of the above.
14. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected