Position Title
Criminal Investigator- Special Agent
Agency
Drug Enforcement Administration
Announcement Number
BA2026-2BDC Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 27, 2025 to Wednesday, November 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
This job announcement is for the Washington, DC area ONLY.  Candidates MUST be willing to relocate to the Washington, DC area.  Candidates NOT willing to relocate to the Washington, DC area will be screened out.
 Yes- I am willing to relocate to the Washington, DC area.
 No- I am NOT willing to relocate to the Washington, DC area.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Criminal Investigator-Special Agent GS-1811-7/9/11 position with the Drug Enforcement Administration. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents.


BASIC ELIGIBILITY


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a citizen of the United States?

 Yes
 No


2.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Note: You will be asked to provide a copy of the exemption prior to appointment

 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


3.
The date immediately preceding (one day before) your 37th birthday is the maximum entry age for original appointment into the Special Agent position. This age restriction does not apply to those who have previously served in a federal civilian (non-military) law enforcement position covered by Title 5 U.S.C. Section 8336 (c) or to preference eligible veterans. I meet one of the situations described below:
 I am 36 1/2 years of age or younger.
 I am 36 1/2 years of age or older and I am a preference eligible veteran.
 I am 36 1/2 years or older and I have prior federal civilian law enforcement experience covered by Title 5 U.S.C. Section 8336(C). When the years of service are subtracted from my current age I am under 36 1/2 years of age.
 I am 36 1/2 years or older and I do NOT have prior federal civilian law enforcement experience covered by Title 5 U.S.C. Section 8336 (C) and I am NOT a preference eligible veteran.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION  


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Criminal Investigator work at the GL-7 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GL/GS-5 level or pay band in the Federal service that includes performing the following duties: Assisting in investigations of alleged or suspected violations of law; Writing reports of findings, results, or accomplishments for information or action relating to law enforcement activities and/or court cases; and researching, collecting and analyzing data from a variety of sources relating to investigations.
 I have one (1) full academic year of graduate level education.
 I have Superior Academic Achievement. I have completed or expect to complete within the next 9 months all the requirements for a bachelor's degree and my education meets at least one of the following requirements for superior academic achievement: 1) class standing in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision based on completed courses; 2) grade point average of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded on the official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; 3) grade point average of 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; OR 4) election to membership in a national scholastic honor society listed by the Association of College Honor Societies.
 I have a combination of graduate level education or higher and specialized experience described above which when computed has a total percentage of at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) by 18. Add the two percentages. (The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected above.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Criminal Investigator work at the GL-9 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GL/GS-7 level or pay band in the Federal service that includes performing the following duties: Assisting in investigations of alleged or suspected violations of law; Collecting and analyzing data from a variety of sources relating to investigations; Writing reports and conducting briefings of findings, results, or accomplishments for information or action relating to law enforcement activities and/or court cases; Meeting or corresponding with court officials and law enforcement personnel to discuss case-related materials; and Assisting prosecuting attorneys in preparation of technical aspects of cases; and/or testifying or presenting evidence for court, legislative, or administrative proceedings.
 I have completed all requirements for a Master's Degree, LL.B or J.D, if related.
 I have two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Master's Degree, LL.B or J.D, if related.
 I have a combination of graduate level education or higher and specialized experience described above which when computed has a total percentage of at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. (The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected above.


6.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Criminal Investigator work at the GS-11 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GL/GS-9 level or pay band in the Federal service that includes performing the following duties: Conducting or supporting federal criminal investigations in collaboration with federal law enforcement agencies; Developing operational plans and determining investigative priorities of cases; Operating undercover, conducting surveillance operations, participating in raids, seizures and arrests etc.; Developing and eliciting information from confidential sources; Interviewing, and interrogating persons suspected of violations of law; and organizing evidence for presentation to prosecution officials and testifying in court.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or LL.M, if related.
 I have three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have a combination of graduate level education or higher and specialized experience described above which when computed has a total percentage of at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36 by 18. Add the two percentages. (The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected above.


ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS


7.
This position requires that you have and maintain a valid driver's license.
 I have a valid driver's license.
 I do not have a valid driver's license.


8.
DEA Special Agents must have proficient driving skills and be comfortable operating a motor vehicle under stressful conditions.

 I have proficient driving skills and am comfortable operating a motor vehicle under stressful conditions.
 I do not have proficient driving skills and/or am not comfortable operating a motor vehicle under stressful conditions.


9.
Upon accepting a position with DEA, you may be required to serve a one to two year trial period. (1 year for preference eligibles and 2 years for non-preference eligibles).

 I am willing to serve a 1 to 2 year trial period.
 I am not willing to serve a 1 to 2 year trial period


10.
DEA Special Agents may be required to exert physical force in the arrest, search, pursuit, and restraint of another person(s).

 I am willing to exert physical force in the arrest, search, pursuit, and restraint of another person(s).
 I am not willing to exert physical force in the arrest, search, pursuit, and restraint of another person(s).


11.
DEA Special Agents are required to carry a firearm while on official duty.

 I am willing to carry a firearm while on official duty.
 I am not willing to carry a firearm while on official duty.


12.
DEA Special Agents may be required to use deadly force should circumstances dictate.

 I am willing to utilize deadly force should circumstances dictate.
 I am not willing to utilize deadly force should circumstances dictate.


13.
All DEA Special Agents are subject to transfer to a new geographical location to meet the organizational and program needs of the agency.

 I am willing to sign a mobility agreement as a condition of my employment.
 I am not willing to sign a mobility agreement as a condition of my employment.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙