Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist-Specialty Care
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12755694-25-DM Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 27, 2025 to Monday, July 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Registered Respiratory Therapist position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: To be appointed to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA, applicants must be proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. BASIC EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: Have you successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor?

NOTE: A transcript must be submitted with your application.

Do you meet the basic education requirement defined above?

Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your master's degree.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree/Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. LICENSURE REQUIREMENT: Persons hired or reassigned to social worker positions in the GS-0185 series in VHA must be licensed or certified by a state to independently practice social work at the master's degree level. Current state requirements may be found by going to http://vaww.va.gov/OHRM/T38Hybrid/ (http://vaww.va.gov/OHRM/T38Hybrid/).

Individuals assigned as social worker program coordinator must be licensed or certified at the advanced practice level and must be able to provide supervision for licensure.

NOTE: You must submit a copy or proof of your license with your application.

Please provide your license/certification information.

Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:

Do you meet the licensure requirement(s) listed above?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Credential: Do you possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Grade Determinations. In addition to the basic requirements for employment in above, all individuals referred and assigned to this occupation must meet all the qualification requirements and KSAs defined in the specific assignment as follows:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES for the Respiratory Therapist, GS-05. In addition to the requirements above you must also demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Experience. None beyond the basic requirements.
(b) Education and Licensure. This level assignment is designated as temporary under paragraph 4d(1) above for individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, licensed by their state and are working towards obtaining RRT credential.

Do you meet the basic requirements and education and licensure for the GS-5 grade level?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES for the Respiratory Therapist, GS-07. In addition to the requirements above you must also demonstrate the following KSAs:


 A. Ability to perform therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
 B. Skill in analyzing physiological specimens obtained to include arterial blood gases, pulse oximetry, End tidal Co2 (ETCo2) monitoring, basic spirometry and other basic diagnostic procedures.
 C. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for respiratory care to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
 D. Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.v. Ability to perform basic airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation. Do you meet the experience, licensure, registration and are you able to demonstrate all of the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities?
7. For the Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-0601-09, candidates must have:
 A. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level; OR
 B. A Master of Science degree in respiratory care AND a license AND an RRT credential. Do you possess one of the requirements above?
8. KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES for the Respiratory Therapist, GS-09. In addition to the requirements above you must also demonstrate the following KSAs:
 A. Skill in performing therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
 B. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
 C. Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
 D. Ability to perform airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation. Are you able to demonstrate all of the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities?
9. For the Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-0601-11, candidates must have:

 A. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level.
 B. Hold an active license and RRT credential. Do you possess the requirements above?
10. KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES for the Respiratory Therapist, GS-011. In addition to the requirements above you must also demonstrate the following KSAs
 A. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
 B. Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
 C. Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management. Are you able to demonstrate all of the above KSAs?
RESUME REMINDER Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2017 to April 2018) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (for Eligibility and/or Time-in-Grade): (FOR CURRENT AND FORMER CIVILIAN FEDERAL EMPLOYEES ONLY. IF YOU HAVE NEVER WORKED FOR THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, PLEASE DISREGARD) If you are a current federal employee, you must attach your most recent, non-award SF-50. This SF-50 should not be more than a year old and must show your current position, grade and step. Award SF-50's typically do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted if they do not include Grade and Step. In order to clearly demonstrate you possess the time-in-grade as required by the announcement, additional SF-50s should be attached which clearly demonstrate the minimum time-in-grade requirement. Please note that having steps does NOT show time-in-grade. When in doubt, submit your most previous (within the last year) AS WELL AS an SF-50 that is OVER 1 YEAR OLD. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: -Within grade increases at the highest grade held -Promotions with an effective date more than one year old -SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old PLEASE CONTACT THE HR SPECIALIST LISTED ON THE ANNOUNCMENT IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING THE PROPER SF-50S. NO EXCEPTIONS WILL BE MADE AFTER THE CLOSING DATE.

TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected