Position Title
CURRICULUM SPECIALIST
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
DHRADSSC-25-12801385-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest-level experience that you fully possess for the position of Curriculum Specialist, GS1701-13. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower-level GS-12 or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) giving the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position. Experience must be reflected in your resume. Specialized experience required for this position is: Development, implementation and delivery of in-person and virtual curriculum across the transition and reintegration enterprise; Assign and manage tasks to meet stated goals and objectives; Develop online curriculum using Articulate 360’s two primary e-learning course authoring tools Storyline and Rise; Determine and implement guidelines for curriculum development, and instructional programs; Ensure technical accuracy and consistency of final products through written and oral communications with emphasis on ability to prepare, articulate, and present views and findings.
 B. My or experience is not reflected in the statement above.
2. From the description listed below, select the letter that best describes your level of education.
Basic Requirements:

 A. Degree: that included or was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position.
 B. Combination of education and experience -- courses equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in A above.
 C. I do not meet the education requirement.
3. This position requires proficiency in developing curriculum tailored for career transition programs with proficiency in both online and in-person formats. Do you meet this requirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. From the following responses, please select the response that best describes your experience developing and revising in person curriculum.

 A. I have not developed and/or revised educational and/or training curriculum for in person delivery.
 B. I have developed and/or revised in person educational and/or training curriculum as part of a team or under supervision.
 C. I have developed and/or revised in person educational and/or training curriculum without supervision.
 D. I have supervised the development and/or revision of in person educational and/or training curriculum.
5. From the following responses, please select the response that best describes your experience developing and revising online curriculum.

 A. I have not developed and/or revised educational and/or training curriculum for online delivery.
 B. I have developed and/or revised online educational and/or training curriculum as part of a team or under supervision.
 C. I have developed and/or revised online educational and/or training curriculum without supervision.
 D. I have supervised the development and/or revision of online educational and/or training curriculum.
6. I have utilized diverse methodology, e.g., ADDIE, Kirkpatrick Model, Blooms Taxonomy, or Adult Learning Theory, to develop and revise online and in person training curricula.

 A. I have educational knowledge and training on methodology to develop and revise training curriculum.
 B. I have used diverse methodology to develop and revise training curriculum under supervision.
 C. I have used diverse methodology to develop and revise training curriculum without supervision.
 D. I have supervised others in the use of diverse methodology to develop and revise training curriculum.
 E. I have no experience developing develop and revise training curriculum.
7. From the following responses, please select the response that best describes your experience developing plans, goals, and objectives for long range plans.

 A. I have not participated in developing plans, goals, and objectives for long range plans.
 B. I have supported developing plans, goals, and objectives for long range plans.
 C. I have led the development of plans, goals, and objectives for long-range plans.
 D. I have made recommendations related to the development of detailed plans, goals, and objectives for long-range plans
8. From the following responses, please select the response that best describes your experience developing strategic, programmatic, and curriculum recommendations in response to changes in policy.

 A. I have developed strategic, programmatic, and curriculum recommendations in response to changes in policy.
 B. I have developed strategic, programmatic, and curriculum recommendations in response to changes in policy under supervision.
 C. I have been part of a team who developed strategic, programmatic, and curriculum recommendations in response to changes in policy
 D. I have education or training to develop strategic, programmatic, and curriculum recommendations in response to changes in policy.
 E. I have not developed strategic, programmatic, and curriculum recommendations in response to changes in policy.
9. From the following responses, please select the one that best describes your experience compiling data and completing research in order to develop, modify, or withdraw training.

 A. I have education or training to compile data and complete research in order to develop, modify, or withdraw training that has direct impact on the end user across a federal and/or private sector entities.
 B. I have been part of a team who compiled data and completed research in order to develop, modify, or withdraw training that has direct impact on the end user across a federal and/or private sector entities.
 C. I have compiled data and completed research in order to develop, modify, or withdraw training that has direct impact on the end user across a federal and/or private sector entities.
 D. I have been led a team who compiled data and completed research in order to develop, modify, or withdraw training that has direct impact on the end user across a federal and/or private sector entities.
 E. I do not have experience compiling data and completing research in order to develop, modify, or withdraw training that has direct impact on the end user across a federal and/or private sector entities.
10. I have experience in delivering, developing, or implementing services which support military members transitioning from active duty?

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. From the following responses, please select the response that best describes your experience giving presentations to senior leadership regarding training implementation and execution.

 A. I have independently given presentations to senior leadership regarding training and curriculum.
 B. I have worked with others in giving presentations to senior leadership regarding training and curriculum.
 C. I have participated in a group in giving presentations to senior leadership regarding training and curriculum.
 D. I have not given presentations to senior leadership regarding training and curriculum.
12. From the following responses, please select the response that best describes your ability to communicate in writing.

 A. I have authored communications to various levels of the management of internal and external partners and private sector leaders.
 B. I have authored written communicated to various levels of management within the agency.
 C. I have not authored written communication to any level of management within or outside the organization
 D. I have authorized, with supervision, written communication to various levels of management within or outside the organization
13. From the following responses, please select the response that best describes your experience presenting information on a policy, program, or curriculum?

 A. I have assisted in the development of the presentation but did not present.
 B. I have not developed a presentation but presented or co-presented information on a policy, program, or curriculum.
 C. I have led the development of the presentation and presented or co-presented information on a policy, program, or curriculum.
 D. I have no experience developing a presentation or presenting.
14. From the following responses, please select the response that best describes your experience planning, designing, and carrying out curriculum-focused programs, projects, and studies.

 A. I have participated in the planning, designing, and carrying out curriculum-focused programs, projects, and studies.
 B. I have supported curriculum-focused project and studies.
 C. I have conducted planning, designing, and carrying out curriculum-focused programs, projects, and studies, informing the supervisor of progress as appropriate.
 D. I have education or training in the planning, designing, and carrying out curriculum-focused programs, projects, and studies.
 E. I have not conducted planning, designing, and carrying out curriculum-focused programs, projects, and studies.
15. Have you worked as a lead, providing direction and oversight of work efforts for a diverse team working on multiple projects simultaneously?
 A. I have led, providing direction and oversight of work efforts for a diverse team working on multiple projects simultaneously.
 B. I have been part of a team, providing direction and oversight of work efforts for a diverse team working on multiple projects simultaneously
 C. I have not led, providing direction and oversight of work efforts for a diverse team working on multiple projects simultaneously
16. Have you successfully encouraged diverse teams to coalesce around central themes/objectives through the use of written and verbal communication techniques?

 A. Yes, I possess this experience and it is clearly outlined in my resume.
 B. No, I do not possess this experience.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected