Position Title
Dental Hygienist (Advanced Clinical)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12750486-25-MG Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, June 25, 2025 to Tuesday, September 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
2. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
An incomplete application package will result in being rated ineligible for further consideration. All required documentation must be submitted prior to closing of vacancy announcement. Please refer to required documents section on how to submit a complete application package. The following documents is required: USAJOBS Resume or Resume that meets Federal Employment Criteria with dental hygienist license information; Official College Transcripts with Degree Conferred Date; and Most Recent Notification of Personnel Action SF-50 with Salary Information (Must have a 2021 effective date) (Required for Federal Employees only).
The following section is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating. Please choose A (Yes) or B (No) for each of the following items to identify which of the following descriptions applies to you.
1. English Language : Are you proficient in written and spoken English? (Dental hygienist candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. License: Do you possess a current, full, active and unrestricted license to practice as a dental hygienist in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States or the District of Columbia? (Copy of Licensure is Required)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Certification :
In accordance with Public Law 97-35, Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act Of 1981, requires persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 C.F.R. Part 75, Standards for the Accreditation of Educational Programs for and the Credentialing of Radiologic Personnel. To meet this requirement, you must have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education and be certified as radiographers in your field. Accredited dental hygiene programs contain curriculum addressing radiologic procedures meets the requirement for certification as dental radiographers. Do you meet the requirements as defined above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Education : Applicants must possess an Associate degree or higher from an accredited dental hygiene program. The degree must have been obtained from an institution whose accreditation was in place for the year in which the course of study was completed. Do you possess an associate degree (or higher) from a dental hygiene program accredited by the American Dental Association's Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. In addition to meeting the basic requirements for the Dental Hygienist occupational series, a candidate must also meet the qualification standards for the grade as specified below:

Experience: At least one year of experience at the next lower grade level (GS-09) that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level.

Assignment:
For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity, and range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. Supervisory dental hygienists generally are found in Complexity Level 2 (Medium Complexity) or Complexity Level 3 (Low Complexity) facilities. The supervisory dental hygienist is responsible for the supervision, administrative management, and direction of dental auxiliary staff. They have full supervisory responsibility over a section or equivalent work unit; but may also be delegated full administrative and professional responsibility for planning and directing the dental auxiliary staff activities for the service or equivalent unit at an independent outpatient clinic. Supervisory dental hygienists' typical duties include preparing work assignments, monitoring clinical performances of dental auxiliary staff, conducting performance appraisals, and other clinical and administrative responsibilities to ensure that the mission of the service and the medical center has been satisfied. They ensure compliance with accrediting agency and regulatory requirements, establishes and monitors the quality of the pre-analytical processes as part of the overall dental service quality management program, and assures corrective action is initiated as needed. They conduct orientation and competency assessments of assigned staff. They develop policies and procedures, manages document control, develop performance standards, position descriptions and functional statements, and are responsible for professional and administrative management of an assigned area to include budget execution. Supervisory dental hygienists maintain interdepartmental relations with other services to accomplish medical center goals.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:
In addition to meeting the KSAs for the GS-9 level, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
1. Advanced knowledge of dental hygiene and/or dental assisting across multiple types of dental practice to provide guidance and training to dental auxiliary staff;
2. Skill in coordinating clinical workflow and work assignments;
3. Ability to develop policy, manage equipment requests and provide workload analysis in Dental Clinic operations;
4. Demonstrated leadership and managerial skills, including skill in interpersonal relations and conflict resolution to deal with employees, team leaders, and managers;
5. Ability to analyze clinically appropriate data and make recommendations to optimize quality, efficiency, performance, and productivity within service;
6. Ability to perform the full range of supervisory duties which would include responsibility for assignment of work to be performed; competency assessments; performance evaluations; selection of staff; and recommendation of awards, advancements, and when appropriate, disciplinary actions.

Do you meet the experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities as specified for the Supervisory Dental Hygienist (GS-10) position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Verification Statement: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment.
 A. I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 B. I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected