Position Title
Paralegal Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO-IMP-12773355-TJE Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 4, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-7 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-9 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
6. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
7. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
8. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
9. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-09 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes providing assistance reviewing and processing cases within the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer's authority; providing assistance assuring that all due process considerations are met and that the elements necessary to establish violation are present and supported by appropriate documentation; receiving and examining petitions filed by individuals, corporations, or attorneys seeking relief from seizures, penalties, fines, or liquidated damages; reviewing acceptability of evidence in some seizure, fines, and penalty cases and all liquidated damages.
 B. I have successfully completed two or more years of full-time graduate education or a Master's (or higher) degree from an accredited college or university or an LL.B. or J.D that demonstrates the skills necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education as described above.
10. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-11 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes developing and evaluating all evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to cases; making determinations and recommendations as appropriate within the requirements of the mitigation guidelines, laws, and regulations; reviewing and making decisions as to the acceptability of evidence in some seizure, fines, and penalty cases and all liquidated damages; preparing and recommending decisions on cases within the jurisdiction of the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer.
 B. I have successfully completed 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree from an accredited college or university, a degree doctoral degree and or LL.M., if related, that demonstrates the skills necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed education and experience that is at least 100% as described in the Combining Experience and Education statement in the announcement posting. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education as described above.
11. If selected for this position, you must successfully complete a multi-week training at a designated training facility as outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Failure to successfully complete the required training course(s) in accordance with the standards and policies of Customs and Border Protection will be grounds for removal from the position. Such failure will result in either reassignment to a former or different position, demotion, or separation by appropriate procedures.

If you have previously attended this training, the requirement may be waived. If you answer "no" to the training agreement acknowledgment question below, you will be removed from further consideration for this position.

Do you acknowledge the training requirement and agree to the terms outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above?
 A. Yes, I confirm that I understand and agree to the term as outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above.
 B. No, I do not agree to the training requirement terms and understand that I will be removed from further consideration for this position.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate in writing.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written responses to requests for information, or I have edited non-technical writing from others.
 C. I have written policies, procedures, training manuals or other technical materials.
 D. I have explained in writing the application of laws, regulations, and precedents covering legal actions, or I have written other materials that presented sensitive or controversial information.
2. Indicate the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, determined the accuracy of the data, defined problems, and identified solutions.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 D. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 E. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
3. Indicate the extent to which you have communicated information orally to others.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated my ideas or other information to individuals or groups primarily within my organization on non-technical matters, using terminology that was familiar to the audience. I have occasionally participated in formal group discussions.
 C. I have communicated occasionally with persons or groups outside of my organization, or I have participated actively as a member of my organization or group in discussions, meetings, or team projects where I had to express my ideas or opinions on non-technical and non-specialized matters.
 D. I have represented my organization or group in meetings and dealings with other groups or organizations for the purpose of proposing and gaining acceptance of ideas and explaining or coordinating views regarding complex, technical, or specialized subject matter.
4. Select the choice which best represents your experience conducting searches for court precedents, relevant statutes, administrative decisions, and regulatory materials.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience searching for court precedents, relevant statutes, administrative decisions, and regulatory materials in support of routine assignments.
 C. I have had extensive experience searching for court precedents, relevant statutes, administrative decisions, and regulatory materials for a wide range of assignments from routine to highly complex and sensitive.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience evaluating evidence, facts, circumstances, and other incidents to better process a case including recommending a decision.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered basic information relating to a case that others were responsible for working.
 C. I have had some experience processing evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to routine cases that I have worked.
 D. I have had extensive experience processing evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to my case workload, and I have used this information to reconcile inconsistencies as necessary.
 E. I have been responsible for ensuring that others process evidence, facts, and circumstances relating to different cases, reviewing their findings, and using the information to reconcile inconsistencies.
6. Indicate the extent to which you have planned and organized your own work.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have completed my work according to specific instructions given to me by my supervisor.
 C. I have organized my work, mainly involving recurring assignments.
 D. I have prioritized and planned my work, taking into account changing priorities and assignments.
7. Select the choice which best represents your experience gathering existing information from various sources, including computer systems, to prepare routine reports.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience locating and gathering information from reference sources (for example, library materials or the Internet) for academic assignments.
 C. I have had experience locating and gathering information for academic assignments and in work settings, and I have used a variety of sources (for example, reference materials, files, records, databases, reports, or the Internet).
 D. I have had extensive experience locating and gathering information in a work setting using a variety of sources. I have applied the information collected to the performance of my work responsibilities and disseminated information as appropriate.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience briefing management on controversial issues or problems with widespread impact.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience presenting my immediate supervisor with information or issues that could be considered controversial in nature.
 C. I have had experience briefing my immediate supervisor and other supervisors and management officials in my organization on controversial issues.
 D. I have had extensive experience briefing management on controversial issues both within my organization as well as outside of my immediate organization.
9. Have you had experience in identifying cases in which additional information is needed (for example, to address incomplete or inconsistent data in case files) and requesting such information from the appropriate staff?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Select the choice which best reflects your experience in reviewing case files, identifying salient issues, and applying the relevant laws in a written decision.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed some routine case files for salient issues and presented my findings to others more senior than myself.
 C. I have had some experience reviewing case files of both a routine and complex nature to identify salient issues as well as researching the applicable laws.
 D. I have had extensive experience reviewing case files to identify salient issues and applying the relevant laws in written decisions.
11. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of legal reference sources (for example, agency manuals, reference systems, directives, issuances, precedent decisions, court decisions, and commercial legal publications) as well as methods of legal research.

 A. I have had no knowledge or experience with legal reference sources or methods of legal research.
 B. I have had some exposure to a variety of legal reference sources and methods of research gained from relevant training and limited on-the-job experience.
 C. I have a working knowledge of most types of legal reference sources and methods of research gained from relevant training as well as substantial on-the-job experience.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of all legal reference sources and methods of research gained from years of experience researching and using the reference sources as part of my on-going duties.
 E. I have independently planned, implemented, and managed multiple projects that were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities. I have had responsibility for ensuring that needed resources were provided, metrics were tracked, and goals were accomplished.
12. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of legal principles and concepts of customs and general administrative law.

 A. I have had no knowledge of legal principles and concepts of customs and general administrative law.
 B. I have received training in legal principles and concepts of general administrative law, but I have had no experience applying this training in a job setting.
 C. In addition to relevant training, I have had some experience applying legal principles and concepts of customs law in a job setting.
 D. I have had extensive experience applying the legal principles and concepts of customs and general administrative law aspect of my on-the-job responsibilities.
13. Have you had experience drafting policy guidance that was disseminated to other staff including field personnel?

 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Have you been responsible for preparing and issuing decisions on cases?

 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Indicate the extent of your experience analyzing petitions and appeals to determine whether grounds for additional relief are present and making recommendations for granting or denying such relief.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience analyzing petitions and appeals for some routine cases to determine if grounds for additional relief were present.
 C. In addition to analyzing petitions and appeals for a variety of cases to determine if grounds for additional relief were present, I have made specific recommendations based on my findings.
 D. I have had extensive experience analyzing petitions and appeals for routine, complex, and highly sensitive cases to determine if grounds for additional relief were present, and I have made specific recommendations regarding granting or denying relief that have been accepted by my supervisor.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience researching information about commodities and products involved in tariff classification cases, or analyzing evidence and circumstances of transactions between U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and importers

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience researching information about commodities and products involved in tariff classifications cases, and facts and records of transactions between CBP and importers, brokers, or carriers involved in some of the cases assigned to me.
 C. I have had extensive experience researching information about commodities and products involved in tariff classification cases and facts and records of transactions between CBP and importers, brokers, or carriers involved in cases assigned to me.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected