Position Title
Transportation Security Officer
Agency
Transportation Security Administration
Announcement Number
12731018 DVL PT Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 28, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
2. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
3. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Displaced Employee?  To be eligible you must meet one or more of the following:
A current (OR former) employee of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) who will be (OR has been) separated through TSA involuntary workforce reduction (IWR) procedures AND I am eligible to be considered for TSA positions for all areas of consideration, for up to one year after the effective date of my involuntary separation; 
A former TSA Transportation Security Officer (TSO) eligible for rehiring priority under the Priority Employment Program (PEP);
An applicant for a Transportation Security Officer (TSO) position who has had my enter-on-duty (EOD) date delayed or offer rescinded due to a workforce reduction or anticipated reduction eligible for priority consideration under the Priority Employment Program (PEP).
If you indicate eligibility for priority consideration and exemption from Area of Consideration restrictions, you must submit a copy of the official notification that supports the eligibility at the time of application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. You must provide information regarding your sex. The duties of this position involve touching and patting down the bodies of airline passengers. Due to privacy interests and the sensitive nature of these duties, the TSA requires a same-sex pat-down of passengers. Accordingly, TSA must ensure that it employs a certain ratio of male and female TSOs to perform passenger screening.
 A. Male
 B. Female
2. Work schedules are comprised of shift-work on any day from Sunday through Saturday, which may include irregular hours, nights, holidays, overtime, extended shifts, weekend shifts, changing shifts, and split shifts. A typical split shift schedule is two shifts, lasting at least two (2) hours each, in one 24-hour period, with an unpaid break of at least two (2) hours between the shifts. Specific work shifts and schedules will be determined by the airport.

Do you understand there are various work schedules for this position and wish to continue in the application process?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Does the TSA employ any of your relatives?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Referred applicants may be shared with other locations within TSA. Do you authorize the sharing of your name and application materials with other locations? If you respond "No", your name and application materials may only be shared for the position and locations on this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Minimum Qualifications
1. Do you possess a high school diploma, or General Educational Development (GED); High School Equivalency Test (HiSET); or Test Assessing Secondary Completion (TASC) high school equivalency certificate; OR do you possess at least 1 year of full-time work experience in the security industry, aviation screening, or as an X-ray technician?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. As a candidate for the Transportation Security Officer (TSO) position you must be able to read, speak, and write English well enough to understand and perform written or spoken instructions as well as read the English language to understand documents related to transportation (to include airline tickets, operating procedures, and security records). Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Suitability and Conditions of Employment
1. This position requires the ability to: repeatedly and safely lift and carry items weighing up to 50 pounds; continuously stand for one (1) to four (4) hours without a break; walk up to three (3) miles during a shift; continuously and effectively interact with the public; and maintain focus and awareness and work within a stressful environment. In addition, eligibility for the TSO position requires passing a drug screening and a job-related medical evaluation which will be assessed in a pre-employment medical/drug evaluation. For more information on TSO medical requirements, please Click Here.
 A. Yes, I understand the requirements stated above and wish to continue in the application process.
 B. No, based on the requirements stated above, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Please indicate whether or not you have been convicted* of any of the offenses listed within the past 10 years. (Note: By responding "Yes" to any of these, you will be removed from consideration for this position.)

*You have a conviction if you plead no contest (nolo contendere), plead guilty, were found guilty, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, to any of the listed disqualifying offenses. The only exceptions are if your guilty plea or conviction has been reversed on appeal, your conviction has been expunged, or you have been pardoned.
Forgery of certificates, false marking of aircraft, and other aircraft registration violations.
Interference with air navigation.
Improper transportation of hazardous material.
Aircraft piracy.
Interference with flight crew members or flight attendants.
Commission of certain crimes aboard aircraft in flight.
Carrying a weapon or explosive aboard aircraft.
Conveying false information and threats.
Aircraft piracy outside the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States.
Lighting violation involving transporting controlled substances. Essentially, this means that if you have been convicted of transporting illegal drugs in a plane without activating the navigation or anti-collision lights you are disqualified.
Unlawful entry into an aircraft area that serves air carriers or foreign air carriers contrary to established security requirements.
Destruction of an aircraft or either a domestic or international aircraft facility. It is a federal crime to use any device, substance or weapon, to intentionally perform an act of violence against any person at an airport or to destroy or seriously damage the facilities of such an airport.
Murder.
Assault with intent to murder.
Espionage.
Sedition (inciting insurrection against lawful authority).
Kidnapping or hostage taking.
Treason.
Rape or aggravated sexual abuse.
Unlawful possession, use, sale, distribution, or manufacture of an explosive or weapon.
Extortion.
Armed or felony armed robbery.
Distribution of, or intent to distribute a controlled substance.
Felony arson.
Felony involving a threat.
Felony involving willful destruction of property.
Felony involving importation or manufacture of a controlled substance.
Felony involving burglary.
Felony involving theft.
Felony involving dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation.
Felony involving possession or distribution of stolen property.
Felony involving aggravated assault.
Felony involving bribery.
Felony involving illegal possession of a controlled substance punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of more than 1 year, or any other crime classified as a felony that the Under Secretary determines indicates a propensity for placing contraband aboard an aircraft in return for money.
Violence at international airports.
Conspiracy or attempt to commit any of the criminal acts listed above.
Interference with security screening personnel.
 A. Yes, I have been convicted* of one or more of the offenses listed above in the last ten (10) years.
 B. No, I have not been convicted* of any of the offenses listed above in the last ten (10) years.
Please respond whether or not you have been separated (e.g., terminated, removed, or resigned while a proposed termination or removal was pending) from TSA for any of the following reasons within the last three years.

Note: By responding "Yes" to any of these, you will be removed from consideration for this position
3. Were you separated due to unacceptable performance?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Were you separated due to misconduct?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Were you separated due to receiving a negative suitability determination from the Personnel Security Division?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Did you resign after receiving a proposed removal letter?
 A. Yes
 B. No
How did you hear about this opportunity?
1. Please let us know how you heard about this opportunity.
--Select-- 
--Select--
Airport ad
Billboard ad
Career center
Digital banner ad
Email
Facebook
Flyer
Gas station TV ad
Google search
Gym TV ad
Instagram
Job board (e.g. Indeed, ZipRecruiter, LinkedIn, etc.)
Job Fair
LinkedIn
Local TV ad
Magazine ad
News
Newspaper ad
Other streaming or online video ad
Professional organization (e.g. LULAC, NOBLE, SHRM, etc.)
Public transit ad
Radio ad
Referral
Shopping mall ad
Streaming radio ad
Text message
TSA postcard
Twitter
USAJOBS Search or E-mail
VA for VETs, TAP or other military/veteran program
YouTube video ad
None of the Above
Application Verification Statement
All the information you provide may be verified by a review of the work experience and/or education as shown on your application form, by checking references and through other means, such as the interview process. Any exaggeration of your experience, false statements, or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected