Position Title
Field Representative
Agency
U.S. Census Bureau
Announcement Number
FLD-2025-0034-FRCG-SC-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 23, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
2. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
3. Are you a current employee of the Department of Commerce (DOC) who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
Your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the Career Transition Programs resource page located on USAJobs.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency (other than the Department of Commerce) who meets the definition of displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?

If yes, confirm that you meet the following eligibility requirements:
 you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
 you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent; AND
You were separated from your position of record less than one year ago.
For more information, review the Career Transition Programs resource page located on USAJobs.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
FR Special Census
1. If your mailing address is different than your home address, please enter the mailing address in its entirety here. If you do not have a different mailing address, please enter N/A for not applicable.
2. This position requires interviewing respondents when they are most likely to be at home which may be evenings and weekends. Are you willing to work evenings and weekends?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently employed by another Federal government agency? (If you answer yes, and if you are selected, you will need to provide more information about your other federal position.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a retired Federal employee receiving an annuity? NOTE: If you answer yes, you will need to provide more information about your annuity before selection.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Have you accepted a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP/"buyout") from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do any of your relatives currently work for the Census Bureau? The Census Bureau defines a relative as a parent, spouse, child, grandparent, sibling (including half), aunt, uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, in-laws, and step relatives.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. To gain the highest levels of cooperation and trust from the public, the Census must ensure that those selected for Field Representative positions do not have any conflicts of interest. Please let us know if you are currently an elected official, or an employee/volunteer with any of the following:
 A. Elected Official
 B. Local, State or Tribal Government
 C. Law Enforcement Organization or Agency
 D. Immigration Organization or Agency
 E. Tax Collection Organization or Agency
 F. None of the Above
8. This position will require you to travel within your assigned geographic area. Do you have access to transportation (personal automobile, public transportation, etc.) to conduct the required work? Note: If you use a personal vehicle for work purposes, you will be reimbursed for mileage. If you use public transportation, you will be reimbursed for work related fares. You may NOT use rideshare services such as taxi/cab, Uber or Lyft.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Work assignments are based on your duty location, which is your home. Assignments may also include the requirement to travel more than 50 miles from your duty location. Are you willing to travel throughout your assigned geographic area? (This may be more than 50 miles from your home.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. A requirement of this position is that you will live in the Area of Consideration at the time of hire. You may view the Area of Consideration by clicking on the link in the requirements section of this announcement. Will you live within the Area of Consideration at the time of hire?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes your education and/or experience that meets the Qualification Requirements for this position.
 A. I have 1 year of General experience being progressively responsible in clerical, office, or other work that indicates the ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position to be filled.
 B. I have 2 years of education above High School.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience as described in A and B above.
 D. I do not have the education and/or experience as described above.
2. Which of the following describes your experience conducting interviews/surveys (e.g government surveys, academic surveys, political polling, or marketing research)?
 A. I have never had class/training conducting interviews to gather information; nor have I performed this task.
 B. I have had class/training conducting interviews to gather information; however, I have not performed this task.
 C. I have conducted interviews to gather information with close supervision from a supervisor/senior employee or mentor.
 D. I have conducted interviews to gather information on a regular basis, independently and usually without review by a supervisor/senior employee or mentor.
 E. I am considered an expert conducting interviews to gather information. I have trained others, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Do you have experience conducting interviews in person to gather information?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you have experience dealing with customers or the public (volunteer or paid) (e.g., sales, teaching, real estate, retail work, fundraising, or social work)?
 A. I have no experience as described above.
 B. I have one to six months of experience.
 C. I have seven months to a year of experience.
 D. I have more than one year of experience.
5. This job requires considerable communication skills. Which of the following describes your skills in communicating with others. Communication skills include listening, asking relevant questions to understand better, and clarifying thoughts and ideas.
 A. I have low level of skills in communication.
 B. I have moderate level of skills in communication.
 C. I have high level of skills in communication.
 D. I have expert level of skills in communication.
6. This job involves collecting data from residents who may be reluctant to participate in our data collection. Which of the following describes your level of experience using negotiation or persuasion techniques to gain cooperation of a person or group of people.
 A. I have never had class/training on this task; nor have I performed this task.
 B. I have had class/training on this task; however, I have not performed this task.
 C. I have performed this task, with close supervision from a supervisor/senior employee or mentor.
 D. I have conducted interviews to gather information on a regular basis, independently and usually without review by a supervisor/senior employee or mentor.
 E. I am considered an expert conducting interviews to gather information. I have trained others, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task.
7. As a Field Representative, you may be expected to ask sensitive questions (e.g., age, race, health, crime, household income, gender identity, sexual orientation, etc.). How willing are you to ask those kinds of questions?
 A. I am not willing to ask those kinds of questions.
 B. I am somewhat willing to ask those kinds of questions.
 C. I am willing to ask those kinds of questions.
8. From the list below, please select the choice that best applies to you when talking to strangers in face-to-face situations.
 A. I am not willing to talk to strangers in face-to-face situations.
 B. I am willing to talk to strangers in face-to-face situations but only if it’s a rare event.
 C. I am willing to talk to strangers in face-to-face situations on an occasional basis.
 D. I am willing to talk to strangers in face-to-face situations daily.
9. This job involves collecting data from residents who may be unfriendly. Which of the following describes your experience dealing with unfriendly people?
 A. I have never had class/ training on dealing with unfriendly people, nor have I performed this task.
 B. I have had class/training on dealing with unfriendly people; however, I have not performed this task.
 C. I have experience dealing with unfriendly people with close supervision from a supervisor/ senior employee or mentor.
 D. I have experience dealing with unfriendly people on a regular basis, independently and usually without review by a supervisor/senior employee or mentor.
 E. I am considered an expert in dealing with unfriendly people and have dealt with them routinely. I have trained others and/or others have consulted me for assistance in this task.
10. From the list below, select the choice that best describes how you handle changing priorities and deadlines in your personal/work life.
 A. I have no experience at all handling changing priorities and deadlines.
 B. I have had class/training on handling changing priorities and deadlines.
 C. I have minimal level of experience handling changing priorities and deadlines and have entry-level skills in this area.
 D. I have moderate level of experience handling changing priorities and deadlines and have intermediate-level skills in this area.
 E. I have a vast amount of experience handling changing priorities and deadlines and have expert-level skills in this area.
11. Your work involves driving to data collection locations. You have been instructed to manually track the number of miles you travel by car and submit the total to your supervisor after each trip. However, after your most recent trip, you realize you forgot to check the odometer before you left, and you are not sure how many miles you drove. How would you most likely handle this situation?
 A. Do not claim the mileage that you drove that day.
 B. Use an online mapping program to estimate the mileage; submit the estimated number of miles.
 C. Mentally visualize the route you were on, then add the estimated mileage to the submitted report.
 D. Drive back to the location by re-tracing your route to determine your exact mileage.
12. You have been given three assignments to complete within a very specific short time frame. You have a lot of personal responsibilities during that time and may not be able to work many hours. How would you most likely handle this situation?
 A. Complete as much of your assignment as you can on the day of the deadline.
 B. Complete your assignment when you can fit it in, hoping it will get done by the deadline.
 C. Plan your assignment so that you can complete both your work and your personal responsibilities and begin right away.
 D. Tell your supervisor that you are unable to complete your assignment before the deadline.
13. You arrive at a residence to conduct a survey and the resident is reluctant to provide you with the requested information. They provide several concerns about how their personal information will be used and whether you have the authority to ask them these questions. How would you most likely handle this situation?
 A. Show them your badge and explain the purpose and the confidential nature of the data collection. Then ask the resident to reconsider providing the information.
 B. Persistently tell the resident that the survey will only take a few minutes to complete and that if you don't collect the information, you will get fired.
 C. Leave the residence and call your supervisor for advice.
 D. Make a note that they refused to provide the requested information and move on to the next address on your list.
14. On Friday one of your customers contacts you to schedule an interview for Saturday. A Saturday interview would put you into overtime. Overtime hours must be pre-approved. How would you most likely handle this situation?
 A. Conduct the interview and claim the hours as regular hours on a different day and not as overtime.
 B. Contact your supervisor and ask for approval of overtime then conduct the interview.
 C. Conduct the interview and claim the overtime hours without supervisory approval.
 D. Tell the customer that you are unable to conduct the interview because it will put you in overtime.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected