Position Title
BASE SERVICES SPECIALIST (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12691613-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 30, 2025 to Monday, July 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review.
1. What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.
 A. I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard.
 B. I am currently a traditional member of the Texas Air National Guard.
 C. I am a current military or prior member eligible to become an Texas Air National Guard member. I am a civilian with no prior military experience.
 D. I am a civilian with no prior military experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you currently possess the following as primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignment? Or are you eligible and able to complete the AFSC qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment within one year?
AFSC: 3F171
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an enlisted member within the grade/rank of E-4(SrA) through E-6(TSgt)? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Air National Guard in the rank of E-4(SrA) not to exceed E-6(TSgt). Civilians without prior service should respond "No".

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Please type your rank and AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".

5. Do you have one year specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-07) or pay band in the federal service, or equivalent experience in the private or public sector with experience in the following: Experience providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled, AND thorough knowledge and understanding of administrative procedures and practices of management, AND experience developing administrative procedures, AND comprehensive knowledge of food service, lodging, mortuary affairs, and unit training requirements; skill in applying data analysis and planning techniques to ensure adequate mission support, AND knowledge must incorporate principles, concepts, and methodologies in the assessment and prioritization of requirements to successfully complete assigned and/or self-directed tasks, AND must consider variables to include cost, personnel qualifications, and equipment availability with regard to the direct impact on strategic development of solutions, AND knowledge must include the ability to appropriately interpret management procedures and independently research regulations and policies to resolve questions and effectively accomplish tasks, AND ability to effectively review and convert divergent information into comprehensive local continuity programs and ensure the continuous improvement and updates to processes while providing key inputs to leadership for development of policy as pertains to implementation of programs, AND knowledge and understanding of a multitude of other Services Programs including Prime Readiness in Base Services (RIBS), Morale Welfare and Recreation, Honor Guard program to formulate intelligent feedback to leadership in the identification and execution of available resources, AND must use knowledge and flexibility in devising solution-based proposals to influence courses of action with consideration to cost, personnel qualifications, equipment condition and availability, and other variable factors, AND knowledge and skill in applying professional military communication, both written and verbal, at all organizational levels, utilizing diverse platforms, AND knowledge of regulations, guidance, and standards and appropriate application to required communication formats, AND must be competent in the utilization of multiple computer software programs to effectively communicate on status of assigned programs to all organizational levels, AND knowledge of management and organizational techniques, systems, and procedures to publish guidance, manuals, directives, and operating instructions for base level and field level Services operations, AND practical knowledge and understanding of resource management principles in meeting mission readiness requirements, AND knowledge and application of evaluative techniques based on current and historical trends to develop recommendations for the resource advisor regarding allocation of personnel, equipment, and funding, AND knowledge of regulations and policies as it affects program use and status of resources to provide incisive advisement to leadership and facilitate mission accomplishment, AND must understand mission requirements and be able to independently research mandatory sources of supply to prepare estimates on procurement of equipment, supplies, and subsistence for evaluation and financial planning purposes by the resource advisor. 

-OR-

Do you have a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or, 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or, LL.B. or J.D., if related. In addition, completion of courses such as the Officer Advanced Course, Squadron Officer School, Command and Staff College, Air and Army War College, National Security Management Course and others of comparable level will be credited at the rate of 1 month of education for 2 months of specialized experience.

-OR- 

Do you have a Combination of Education and Experience? The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify an applicant for that grade level. Visit OPM website for more information and examples of how education and experience may be combined: General Schedule Qualification Standards (opm.gov).

Graduate Education: Education at the graduate level in an accredited college or university must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.

Note: If you are using education to meet minimum qualifications for this position, you MUST provide a copy of your transcripts with your application. Failure to do so will result in automatic disqualification from consideration.
 A. I have 1-year specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-07) or pay band in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector with experience in the following: Experience providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled, AND thorough knowledge and understanding of administrative procedures and practices of management, AND experience developing administrative procedures, and comprehensive knowledge of food service, lodging, mortuary affairs, and unit training requirements; skill in applying data analysis and planning techniques to ensure adequate mission support, AND knowledge must incorporate principles, concepts, and methodologies in the assessment and prioritization of requirements to successfully complete assigned and/or self-directed tasks, AND must consider variables to include cost, personnel qualifications, and equipment availability with regard to the direct impact on strategic development of solutions, AND knowledge must include the ability to appropriately interpret management procedures and independently research regulations and policies to resolve questions and effectively accomplish tasks, AND ability to effectively review and convert divergent information into comprehensive local continuity programs and ensure the continuous improvement and updates to processes while providing key inputs to leadership for development of policy as pertains to implementation of programs, AND knowledge and understanding of a multitude of other Services Programs including Prime Readiness in Base Services (RIBS), Morale Welfare and Recreation, Honor Guard program to formulate intelligent feedback to leadership in the identification and execution of available resources, AND must use knowledge and flexibility in devising solution-based proposals to influence courses of action with consideration to cost, personnel qualifications, equipment condition and availability, and other variable factors, AND knowledge and skill in applying professional military communication, both written and verbal, at all organizational levels, utilizing diverse platforms, AND knowledge of regulations, guidance, and standards and appropriate application to required communication formats, AND must be competent in the utilization of multiple computer software programs to effectively communicate on status of assigned programs to all organizational levels, AND knowledge of management and organizational techniques, systems, and procedures to publish guidance, manuals, directives, and operating instructions for base level and field level Services operations, AND practical knowledge and understanding of resource management principles in meeting mission readiness requirements, AND knowledge and application of evaluative techniques based on current and historical trends to develop recommendations for the resource advisor regarding allocation of personnel, equipment, and funding, AND knowledge of regulations and policies as it affects program use and status of resources to provide incisive advisement to leadership and facilitate mission accomplishment, AND must understand mission requirements and be able to independently research mandatory sources of supply to prepare estimates on procurement of equipment, supplies, and subsistence for evaluation and financial planning purposes by the resource advisor.
 B. I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree, or, 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or, LL.B. or J.D., if related. I understand that by selecting this option, my resume clearly reflects my experience, and that I must provide my transcript/s with my application.
 C. I have a combination of the experience and education listed above. I understand that by selecting this option, my resume clearly reflects my experience, and that I must provide my transcript/s with my application.
 D. I do not meet the qualification requirements listed above.
6. Do you currently have a Secret security clearance, or are you eligible to obtain a Secret Security clearance within one year of appointment?

 A. I have a Secret security clearance.
 B. I am willing and eligible to undergo a background investigation to obtain a Secret security clearance within one year of appointment.
 C. I am not willing or not eligible to undergo a background investigation to obtain a Secret security clearance within one year of appointment.
7. Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected