Position Title
Aviation Enforcement Agent
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
AMO-SMP-12795173-AGJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
2. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
3. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is currently on Active Duty?

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority. 

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit official supporting documentation (i.e. copy of the Active Duty orders or statement of service)

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit all supporting documents identified on the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Member 4 copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.). For information on how to request veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000   or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/ 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans Resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

The following question applies to a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service.  If you are not a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service, select No.   

Are you a current federal civilian employee with the Federal government in a permanent competitive service position? 

To verify your eligibility as indicated above, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting your current permanent position in the competitive service 

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2)  
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1)  

NOTE:  If you are a current federal employee in an excepted service position or other than permanent competitive service position then you are not eligible under this current federal employee eligibility.  If you have prior permanent competitive service with the federal government, you may be eligible as a reinstatement applicant if the announcement is open to former federal employees. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
7.

The following question applies to former permanent federal employees in the competitive service, or federal employees who are currently in an excepted service position or other than permanent competitive service position but who previously held a permanent competitive service position. Details and Temporary Promotions are not considered permanent positions.  

Are you a current or former federal civilian employee with the Federal government that meets one of the following criteria? 

Is currently employed with the Federal government in an excepted service position, or other than permanent competitive service position; who was previously employed with the Federal government with career status in a competitive service appointment; OR 
Is currently employed with the Federal government in an excepted service position, or other than permanent competitive service position, who was previously employed with the Federal government with career-conditional status in a competitive service appointment and has had no more than a total of 3 years of separation from their previous career conditional appointment or are Veterans' Preference eligible.  
Was previously employed with the Federal government with career status in a competitive service appointment, OR 
Was previously employed with the Federal government with a career-conditional status in a competitive service appointment and has had no more than a total of 3 years of separation from their previous career conditional appointment or are Veterans' Preference eligible. 

To verify your eligibility as indicated above, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting your former permanent position in the competitive service: 

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2)  
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1)  

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center and OPM Hiring Information. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9.

Are you a current or former land management employee eligible to apply under The Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act as described in 5 U.S.C 9602, who meets the conditions below?  

Hired for a temporary or term position under a competitive appointment.  

Served one or more temporary or term appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years.  

Performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service.  

If no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following: 

Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 reflecting your time limited status. 

Additional Standard Form 50s may be required to demonstrate a service period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years.  

Your most recent performance appraisal demonstrating fully successful, or equivalent.  See Additional Information section of vacancy announcement for further details.    

If you have had multiple periods of time-limited employment, you must show proof of acceptable levels of employment for each of the periods of employment used to satisfy the 24-month requirement.  

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. For information on how to request your veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000  or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/
 A. Yes
 B. No
12.

This question applies to current or former Federal employees. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Applicants who do not answer this question correctly are not removed from consideration.  However, if you claim only the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Promotion potential (also referred to as full performance level - FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not considered permanent positions. The examples provided below and are not all inclusive but are provided for informational purposes only.  

Examples:   

You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12. 
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12. 
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 would be considered the highest promotion potential you have held.  
You formerly held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis with promotion potential to the GS-13 and have been separated less than 52 weeks. GS-13 would be considered the highest promotion potential you have held. 
You were a former Federal employee and have been separated for over 52 weeks, you may be considered for a promotion potential above what you previously held without competition if it is determined you meet the specialized or general experience.  
To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee with promotion potential, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) that reflect:   
Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2); AND
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1); OR
Position Occupied (Box 34): Excepted service (2); when in another merit system which OPM has an interchange; AND
Promotion Potential equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced; AND if applicable,

If you are a former Federal employee, and have been separated from Federal service for over 52 weeks, it is recommended that you submit your most recent career or career-conditional position rating of record (performance appraisal) along with your SF-50 that reflects: 

Rate of record (performance appraisal) of at least fully successful (or equivalent) 

Are you one of the following below?
A current or former Federal employee who has held a permanent position in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement, OR
A former Federal employee who has been separated more than 52 weeks who has previously held a permanent position in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) as noted in the announcement? (Applicants who were previously employed with the Federal government and did not previously hold the promotion potential of the position announced may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures if it has been longer than 52-weeks since previous Federal employment, provide your rating of record (performance appraisal) of at least fully successful (or equivalent) and you are considered qualified). 
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
4. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
6. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
7. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
8. This vacancy has a local commuting area requirement, as defined below (This restriction does not apply to VEOA eligibles):
The area surrounding the duty station by which people reasonably travel back and forth from home to work; Or
The employee's permanent duty station is located within the reasonable travel area surrounding the duty station of this vacancy; Or if applicable
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for less than 1 year) to another duty location, the permanent duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for more than 1 year) to another duty location, the detailed or temporary duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
Do you meet the local commuting area requirement?
 A. Yes, I meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
 B. No, I do not reside within the local commuting area, however, I wish to be considered under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA). I understand that I must provide documentation of my VEOA eligibility.
 C. No, I do not reside within the local commuting area, however, I wish to be considered under the non-competitive authority for Military Spouses. I understand that I must provide documentation of my Mil Spouse eligibility.
 D. No, I do not meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
9. Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. § 1997?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Provisions of Public Laws 93-350 and 100-238 allow the imposition of a maximum age for initial appointment to a primary Law Enforcement Officer position within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In accordance with DHS Management Directive 251-03, the "day before an individual's 37th birthday" is the maximum age for original appointment to a position as a primary law enforcement officer within DHS. In accordance with Department of Homeland Security Directive 251-03, unless the below criteria applies, you must meet this age requirement by the date of referral to the hiring manager.

Creditable law enforcement officer service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8401(36) (as a Customs and Border Protection Officer) on or after July 6, 2008, may be applied toward the maximum age requirement. This age restriction may not apply if you are currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) law enforcement position covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).

Veterans Preference Eligibility: To ensure compliance with statutes pertaining to the appointment of preference eligible veterans as determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board in its recent decision of Isabella v. Dept. of State, the maximum age for original appointment articulated above shall not apply to the hiring of individuals entitled to veterans preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312. You must submit proof of Veteran's Preference (DD-214 Member 4 Copy) at the time of application.
Will you be less than 37 years of age at the closing date of this announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have creditable federal civilian (not military) service under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c), Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service on or after July 6, 2008 covered by Public Law 110-161 that may be applied toward the maximum age requirement.
 C. Not applicable. The age restriction does not apply to me because I am currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) position and the retirement covered under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
 D. Not Applicable. The age restriction does not apply because I am entitled to veterans’ preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312.
 E. No, I will not be less than 37 years of age at the closing date of this announcement and DO NOT meet any of the exceptions listed above. I understand that this will remove me from receiving further consideration under this announcement.
Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that included coordinating investigative activities with Federal, State, and local law enforcement officials; conducting inspections and investigations where significant difficulties are encountered; overcoming obstacles to gather and interpret evidence; and prescribing corrective action or remediation in difficult and complex work assignments.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.?
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience initiating and controlling law enforcement activities at the scene as arresting/seizing officer until suspects or property can be turned over to the appropriate enforcement representative.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience initiating and controlling law enforcement activities under close supervision or a senior employee.
 C. I have experience initiating and controlling law enforcement activities at a scene and as arresting/seizing officer until suspects or property can be turned over to the appropriate enforcement representative as a routine part of my duties.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience collecting, refining, or analyzing strategic and tactical intelligence to execute aviation enforcement operations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had training in how to perform this task but no actual experience carrying it out.
 C. I have assisted others responsible for performing this task by collecting relevant intelligence and information.
 D. I have had some experience, under direct supervision, collecting and analyzing strategic and tactical intelligence needed to execute aviation enforcement operations.
 E. I have had experience independently collecting, refining, and analyzing strategic and tactical intelligence needed to execute a variety of aviation enforcement operations.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience maintaining contacts in order to complete information exchanges and to obtain support in the course of interdiction events with the law enforcement and military communities in the United States and foreign countries.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had routine experience in developing relationships and maintaining contacts for information exchanges or to obtain support in the course of interdiction events with the law enforcement and military communities in the United States.
 C. I have had some experience in developing relationships and maintaining contacts for information exchanges or to obtain support in the course of interdiction events with the law enforcement and military communities in the United States.
 D. I have had extensive experience developing and maintaining contacts to complete information exchanges and to obtain support in the course of interdiction events with the law enforcement and military communities in the United States as well as in foreign countries.
5. Select the option that best describes your expereince using law enforcement and interdiction techniques to detect, interdict, apprehend, detain, and arrest suspected smugglers, potential terrorists, illegal contraband, and immigrants.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have some experience using law enforcement and interdiction techniques to detect, interdict, apprehend, detain, and arrest suspected smugglers, potential terrorists, illegal contraband, and immigrants gained from relevant training.
 C. I rountinely use law enforcement and interdiction techniques to detect, interdict, apprehend, detain, and arrest suspected smugglers, potential terrorists, illegal contraband and immigrants gained from on-the-job experience.
 D. I have extensive experience using law enforcement and interdiction techniques to detect, interdict, apprehend, detain, and arrest suspected smugglers, potential terrorists, illegal contraband, and immigrants gained from using each of these tasks as a routine part of my job.
6. Select the option that best describes your experience conducting airborne, waterborne, and ground-based surveillance.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been trained in procedures for conducting various types of surveillance but I have not had any actual experience doing so in the field.
 C. I have assisted others responsible for conducting airborne, waterborne, and ground-based surveillance.
 D. I have had some experience independently conducting one or more of these types of surveillance in the field.
 E. I have had extensive experience independently conducting one or more of these types of surveillance in the field.
7. Select the option that best describes your experience operating VHF, UHF, and satellite communications equipment.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have operated VHF, UHF, and satellite communications equipment to direct additional U.S. or foreign, law enforcement and military personnel and assets, to a point where an effective interdiction action can be made against a suspected smuggler.
 C. I have trained others in the use of VHF, UHF, and satellite communications equipment to direct additional U.S. or foreign, law enforcement and military personnel and assets, to a point where an effective interdiction action can be made against a suspected smuggler.
8. Select the option that best describes your experience commanding and controlling interdiction tactics and operations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have performed interdiction tactics and operations under the guidance of a supervisor or other senior individual.
 C. I have some experience independently commanding and controlling interdiction tactics and operations.
 D. I have extensive experience directing airborne, maritime, and/or land based law enforcement in performing joint interdictions during training and operations.
9. Do you have experience using land, maritime, or airborne tactical sensors and other detection devices/assets to detect targets of interest?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Have you had the responsibility for the safety of non-crew members on board your aircraft during tactical operations.

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate orally on a radio effectively while under stress.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have some experience communicating orally on a radio, but never under stressful conditions.
 C. I have routine experience communicating orally on a radio on a regular basis, which at times can be under stressful conditions.
 D. I have experience communicating orally on a radio under highly stressful conditions on a regular basis.
12. Have you testified under oath before grand jury, criminal and civil proceedings, and/or other domestic legal proceedings?

 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Select the option that best describes your experience in apprehending and detaining individuals suspected of violating applicable laws and regulations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had training related to apprehension and detention of suspected violators, but I have had little or no experience in applying these laws, regulations, or policies in a work setting.
 C. I have some experience arresting and detaining suspected violators while ensuring adherence to applicable laws, regulations, and policies.
 D. I have routine experience arresting and detaining suspected violators while ensuring adherence to applicable laws, regulations, and policies.
 E. I have extensive experience arresting and detaining suspected violators while ensuring adherence to applicable laws, regulations, and policies.
14. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of Federal laws, statutes, legal precedents, and judicial and administrative policies relating to the smuggling of contraband and human trafficking into the United States.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some training on the Federal laws, statutes, legal precedents, and judicial and administrative policies relating to the smuggling of contraband and human trafficking into the United States, but I have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have a general knowledge of the Federal laws, statutes, legal precedents, and judicial and administrative policies relating to the smuggling of contraband and human trafficking into the United States acquired through relevant training and some on-the-job experience.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of the Federal laws, statutes, legal precedents, and judicial and administrative policies relating to the smuggling of contraband and human trafficking into the United States acquired through relevant training and extensive on-the-job experience applying these laws, statutes, legal precedents, and judicial and administrative policies.
15. Select the choice that best describes your level of skill in working in or leading work-related teams.

 A. I have had no experience in working in or leading work-related teams.
 B. I have participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor, team leader, or a senior specialist.
 C. I have served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 D. I have led one or more teams, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines and evaluating individual team member performance.
 E. I have led large and integrated project teams consisting of members from multiple work units across my organization. I have assigned and overseen all project tasks, ensured that project goals and deadlines were met, and provided feedback to team members on their performance.
16. Select the choice that best describes your level of skill in directing other law enforcement or military aircraft, vessels, or vehicles to intercept aircraft, vessels, or vehicles suspected of terrorist activity or smuggling contraband or persons into or out of the United States.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others responsible for performing this task by researching and reporting relevant information.
 C. I have, under direct supervision, had some experience directing other law enforcement or military aircraft, vessels, or vehicles to intercept aircraft, vessels, or vehicles suspected of terrorist activity or smuggling contraband or persons into or out of the United States.
 D. I have been independently responsible, in numerous situations, for directing other law enforcement or military aircraft, vessels, or vehicles to intercept aircraft, vessels, or vehicles suspected of terrorist activity or smuggling contraband or persons into or out of the United States.
 E. I have had extensive experience actively directing other law enforcement or military aircraft, vessels, or vehicles to intercept aircraft, vessels, or vehicles suspected of terrorist activity or smuggling contraband or persons into or out of the United States.
17. Select the option that best describes your experience taking innovative actions to address new needs and issues.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have contributed to an innovative action addressing new needs or issues as a member of a group or problem solving team.
 C. I have independently taken innovative actions to address new needs and issues of moderate complexity. My peers have sought me out due to my expertise in generating innovative ideas to address complex problems.
 D. My superiors have consulted me for my expertise in taking innovative action to address highly complex, technical, or specialized matters. New policies, practices, or procedures have been implemented as a result of my ability to generate innovative strategies.
18. Indicate the extent of your experience developing and disseminating information to forecast smuggling trends.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others responsible for performing this task by gathering and collating relevant information.
 C. I have had some experience researching and developing information to forecast smuggling trends that was used by others.
 D. I have had extensive experience researching, developing, and disseminating information to forecast smuggling trends.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected