Position Title
Medical Records Administrator
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12821761-26-TF Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 24, 2025 to Friday, November 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you the spouse of a current or former member of the Armed Forces? In accordance with revised 5 U.S.C. 3330d(b), the head of an agency may now appoint noncompetitively: the spouse of a member of the armed forces on active duty, the spouse of a 100 percent disabled member of the armed forces, or the spouse of a deceased member of the armed forces.

Active Duty Spouse
Includes all spouses of members of the armed forces on active duty.
Spouses do not have to relocate with active duty spouse.
Based on 100% Disability - As a military spouse, you may be eligible to be considered under this authority if:
The military member was retired under Chapter 61 of title 10, United States Code with a 100% disability rating from the military; or
Was released from active duty and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans' Affairs or the military department.
Based on Service Member's Death
As the military spouse, you may be eligible if the military member was killed while on active duty (it does not have to be combat related), and you have not remarried.

To verify your eligibility, submit the following applicable documents:

Documentation verifying marriage: (i.e., marriage license, certificate or other government issued document certifying marriage to your military spouse or veteran.)
A copy of your spouses active-duty military orders.
DD-214: Certificate of release or discharge from active duty (Military spouses of 100% disabled separated or retired veterans and widows or widowers, who are not remarried, of military service members who were killed on active duty.)
DD 1300: Report of Casualty (Military spouses who are widows and widowers, and are not remarried, of military service members who were killed on active duty.)
Veterans Affairs Benefit Documentation of Deceased or Disabled Veteran. 

For more information, review USAJOBS Military Spouses resources

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


8.
Do you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, certifying your documented disability and eligibility under Schedule A.

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1)
For more information visit here T5 Transfer
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
recently separated (within the past 3 years); OR,
are a disabled veteran; OR,
served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition; OR,
received an Armed Forces Service Medal?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, you must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
The following are the requirements for appointment as a Medical Records Administration Specialist (MRAS) and Medical Records Administrator (MRA) (collectively referred to as "MRA") in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements apply to all VHA MRAs in the General Schedule (GS)- 0669 series. MRAs in VHA perform or supervise work concerned with the management of a health record program or the provision of services related to medical record administration/health information services. MRAs manage, preserve, analyze, and supervise the use of diagnostic and therapeutic health records/health information management. They develop policies and procedures and provide advice on the use of health records and health information management. In the health care community, MRAs are generally referred to as "health information managers (HIM) or health information management specialists (HIMS)," and these terms are considered to be synonymous where stated.



The following are the basic requirements for the Medical Records Administrator.


Creditable Experience. Experience is only creditable if it is in health information management and is directly related to the position to be filled. To be creditable, the candidate's experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current practice. Experience satisfying this requirement must be active practice, which is paid/non-paid employment as an MRT/MRA or related field such as medical coding, qualitative and quantitative health record analysis, Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act privacy and release of information, or preparation, maintenance, and management of health records. Part-Time Experience. Part-time experience as a professional MRA is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time workweek. For example, an MRA would receive one week of full-time credit for each two weeks of half-time work. Quality of Experience. To be creditable, experience must be documented on the application or resume and verified in an employment reference, or through other independent means.



Basic Experience and Education qualification. Applicants must possess at least the one of the following basic experience and education combinations to be eligible for appointment.


1.
Select the experience/education statement that best applies to your experience/education.
 Experience. I have at least three years of creditable experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology, medical records procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative, and legal requirements of health care delivery systems. This experience MUST be documented in your resume.
 Education. I have successful completion of a bachelors degree or higher from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology. You must provide transcripts.
 Experience/Education Combination. I have an equivalent combination of creditable experience and education that equals 100 percent to meet the basic requirements. For example, two years above high school from an accredited college or university, with 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management, plus one year and six months of creditable experience that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems meets an equivalent combination.
 Grandfathering Provision. As of May 28, 2020, I was, and I am still am employed in the VHA as an permanent MRA, therefore, I am considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series, and grade held, including positive education, and registration and/or certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. Must provide SF50 dated before and after 05/28/2020, that reflects your occupation.
 I do not have the basic education and/or experience, and I do not meet the grandfathering provision.



Persons hired or reassigned to MRA position in the GS-0669 series in the VHA must meet certification requirements. You MUST provide documentation of your certification.


2.
Select the certification statement that best applies to your certification.
 I have Coding Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. Coding Certification. Mastery certification obtained through the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) or the American Association of Professional Coders (AAPC)., current mastery level coding certifications include: Certified Coding Specialist (CCS), Certified Coding Specialist (CCS) ? Physician-based (CCS-P), Certified Professional Coder (CPC), Certified Outpatient Coder (COC), and Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC).
 I have Health Information Management (HIM) Certification through AHIMA of either Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) and/or Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA).
 I am a Certified Health Data Analyst (CHDA) through AHIMA.
 Grandfathering Provision. As of May 28, 2020, I was, and I am still am employed in the VHA as an permanent MRA, therefore, I am considered to have met all qualification requirements for the certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. Must provide SF50 dated before and after 05/28/2020, that reflects your occupation.
 I do not have the required certification, and I do not meet the grandfathering provision.



The following questions relate to grade determination. In addition to the basic requirements listed above, you must meet the criteria for the grade(s) you are applying for.


Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-7. Assignment. Employees at this level serve in an MRA career development position with guidance from the supervisor or designee in day-to-day assignments. MRAs are responsible for generating, analyzing, and presenting multiple HIM reports. They monitor health record data integrity per established policies, procedures, and industry standards. They prepare workload and production reports and monitor trends to identify efficiencies and deviations. Additionally, they participate in various health record review activities. The MRA typically participates in various facility and regional committees requiring health information management subject matter expertise. The GS-07 MRAS must Demonstrated the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. i. Knowledge of current classification systems, such as International Classification of Diseases, Current Procedural Terminology, and the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS). ii. Ability to effectively communicate (written and verbal) with medical center staff, patients, and external entities. iii. Ability to use data collection and analytical techniques for purposes of review, quality control, studies and analysis of health information. iv. Ability to utilize computer applications with varied functions to produce a wide range of reports, to abstract records, collect and analyze data and present results in various formats. v. Ability to work independently, adapt to shifting priorities, and meet deadlines.


3.
Select the statement that best describes your education/experience and the ability to demonstrate the KSAs for the Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-7.
 Experience. In addition to the basic requirements, I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and I can demonstration the KSAs for this grade level. Experience and KSAs must be documented in your resume.
 Education. (Advanced Entry-Level Placement). I possess a bachelors degree from an accredited college or university in a major field of study in health information management, with an exemplary academic record as demonstrated by: (1) A 3.0 or higher-grade point average (GPA) out of a possible 4.0 GPA ("B" or better), as recorded on their official transcript or as computed based on four years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final two years of the curriculum; or 2) A 3.5 GPA or higher out of a possible 4.0 GPA ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field of study, or the required courses completed in the major field of study during the final two years of the curriculum and I can demonstrate the KSAs for this grade. NOTE: Transcripts must be provided.
 I do not have the education or experience, or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for this grade level.


Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-9. Assignments. Employees at this level serve in an MRA career development position with limited guidance, from the supervisor or designee, in day-to-day assignments. MRAs are responsible for generating and analyzing multiple HIM reports and identifying best practices or opportunities for improvement. They perform workflow analyses, recommend process improvements, and implement changes to improve the productivity and quality controls of the HIM department. They monitor reports, trends, and health record data integrity according to established policies, procedures, and industry standards. MRAs participate in various health record review activities. They also participate in various facility and regional committees requiring health information management subject matter expertise. The Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-9, must demonstrate the following Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities i. Knowledge of medical and legal requirements related to health information management and health records. ii. Ability to provide technical advice and guidance on health information management practices. iii. Skill in extracting data from various sources and analyzing health information to create reports. iv. Skill in researching, interpreting, and applying health information management guidelines. v. Knowledge of performance and process improvement techniques to develop new or improved solutions in health information management.


4.
Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience and the ability to demonstrate the KSAs for the Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-9.
 Experience. I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics described at that level. Must be documented in your resume.
 Education. I have the education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a masters degree or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited college or university in a field directly related to health information management. NOTE: Transcripts must be provided.
 I do not have the education or experience, or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for this grade level.


Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-11. Assignments. This is considered the full performance level for MRA positions (MRA/HIM Specialist). MRAs work independently in day-to-day assignments. They perform data mining; complex data analysis; and interpret and transform data into accurate, consistent, and timely information in support of the business and operational needs of the HIM department and the organization. They present findings and recommendations to the Chief of HIM (CHIM) and facility leadership. MRAs perform workflow analyses, recommend process improvements, identify and implement best practices, and implement changes as needed to improve the productivity and quality controls of the HIM department. They prepare workload and production reports, monitor trends to identify efficiencies and outliers, and recommend appropriate actions which may involve collaborating with staff at all levels for resolution. The MRA designs and performs quality improvement projects related to health information management to identify and recommend ways of eliminating, combining, simplifying or improving procedures and processes. They compile diagnostic, procedural, and statistical data, and present reports locally, regionally, or nationally. MRAs lead various health record review activities. They participate in various facility, regional, and/or national committees requiring health information management subject matter expertise. The MRA exhibits broad organizational knowledge, communicates and provides training and education to individuals and groups, at multiple levels, both internal and external to the facility. The Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-11, must demonstrate the following Knowledges, Skills, and Abilities: i. Skill in performance and process improvement techniques to develop and implement new or improved solutions in health information management. ii. Ability to advise management and staff, at various levels, regarding health record documentation requirements and health information management practices based on current industry standards, policies, statues, laws, and regulations. iii. Ability to plan, justify, develop, evaluate, assess, monitor, and advise on current health information management processes and recommend changes in policies or procedures. iv. Ability to determine and evaluate compliance with legal, ethical, and regulatory guidelines and accrediting bodies, as they apply to health information management. v. Ability to acquire, manage, analyze, interpret, and transform data into accurate, consistent, and meaningful information.


5.
Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience and the ability to demonstrate the KSAs for the Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-11.
 Experience. I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates all of the KSAs described at this level.
 Education. I have the education equivalent to three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited university or college in the field of health information management. NOTE: Transcripts must be provided.
 I do not have the education or experience, or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for this grade level.


Resume Reminder - ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Resume must include how to contact you phone number and email address. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job/experience listed: (REQUIRED) (1.) Employer's Name (2.) Employer's City and State (3.) Job title (Federal jobs must be separated by title and grade level(s)) (4.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) (5.) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week...i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. (6.) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying for. We do not make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. Diplomas are NOT suitable substitutions for your transcripts and will not be accepted. It is the responsibility of the applicant to identity the required courses health information technology courses that are directly related to MRA work by providing a course description from the college or university if not clearly identifiable on the school's transcripts. We do NOT make assumptions from the course number that the listed courses meet the requirements. (REQUIRED). NOTE: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. Failure to provide copy of transcripts will result in NOT being referred.


SF-50 Reminder - Important note regarding documenting eligibility. To be considered for this position, you must provide your most recent SF-50. Failure to provide a current SF-50 will result in not being referred. NOTE: "Award' or 'Incentive" SF-50, DO NOT contain the required information and will not be considered valid required documentation to verify status.


Certification Reminder - The only accepted documented proof of certification must be obtained from the AHIMA Website: https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx (https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx) or the AAPC Website: https://www.aapc.com/certification/credential-verification.aspx (https://www.aapc.com/certification/credential-verification.aspx). Failure to provide this proof of your current certification will result in not being referred.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙