Position Title
Marine Interdiction Agent
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
MIA 25-11-12789924 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
2. Enter the number of MONTHS of Federal service experience you have attained as a firefighter, law enforcement or air traffic controller.
3. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
4. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Applicants are highly encouraged to "Opt-in" for text message reminders!
For applicants who receive a tentative selection offer from Customs and Border Protection, the CBP Hiring Center is offering text messaging reminders. This service will provide you with helpful reminders of scheduled appointments as you move through the pre-employment process. All automated messages are programmed to remind applicants of upcoming appointments (i.e., medical appointment, fitness test reminder, etc.) approximately 3-days out from the appointment dates. Text messaging will not replace any form of official communication, but is intended solely as an added service to reinforce communication.

You may choose to "Opt-in" for this customer service option. Based on conditions set by your mobile carrier, standard text messaging rates may apply which will not be reimbursed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Please check with your carrier to address any potential costs to you to ensure receiving text messaging is an option available to you based on the terms of your service contract. Some carriers may also block incoming "fee generating" text messages or messages from outlying sources and some messages may appear truncated based on limitations imposed by your carrier. Current system constraints with some carriers may not support text messaging service. If you choose to opt-in at this time, you may elect to discontinue this service later by contacting the CBP Hiring Center.

Please select your carrier below. If you do not wish to "Opt In" for text messaging reminders, please choose the last option.
--Select-- 
--Select--
AT&T [0002]
Boost Mobile [0003]
Cricket Wireless [0004]
Sprint [0006]
T-Mobile [0007]
Verizon [0008]
Virgin Mobile USA [0009]
Cellular South [0012]
Centennial Wireless [0013]
Qwest [0015]
Simple Mobile [0016]
TracFone [0017]
Other [0010]
I do NOT opt in to receive text messaging reminders
5. If you opted in for text messaging reminders, please add you cell phone number below in this format: xxx-xxx-xxxx

If you did not opt in for text messaging reminders, please enter N/A below.
6. Applicants who receive a tentative offer of employment must successfully complete a polygraph examination. Provided below is a list of locations where polygraph examinations are offered. Please select the location where you prefer to complete your polygraph examination. CBP will do its best to schedule you at your preferred location. However, you may be required to travel to attend the polygraph. CBP will not reimburse you for travel to or from the polygraph site. You will be contacted by the Office of Professional Responsibility to schedule the required polygraph examination.
--Select-- 
--Select--
AZ: Tucson [1001]
AZ: Yuma [1002]
CA: Aliso Viejo (LA/SD) [1004]
CA: San Diego [1003]
CA: San Francisco [1006]
FL: Miramar [1010]
FL: Orlando [1011]
GA: Atlanta (Kennesaw) [1040]
IL: Chicago [1013]
IN: Indianapolis [1014]
ME: Portland [1035]
MI: Detroit [1015]
MN: Bloomington (Mpls/St Paul) [1016]
NJ: Newark [1017]
NY: Buffalo [1018]
NY: Valley Stream [1019]
PR: San Juan [1038]
TN: Nashville [1048]
TX: El Paso [1021]
TX: Houston [1022]
TX: Irving (Dallas/Ft Worth) [1023]
TX: McAllen [1025]
TX: San Antonio [1046]
WA: Seattle [1007]
Washington, DC [1008]
7. Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Due to the strenuous nature of the Marine Interdiction Agent duties and the associated training programs, fitness tests have been developed and will be used to screen candidates for entry level MIA positions. Candidates will be required to pass the pre-employment fitness test early in the pre-employment process. To increase the chances of passing the fitness test, engage in regular physical exercise. For more information go to: https://www.cbp.gov/careers/mia-app-proc

I understand that if selected I will be required to meet the fitness requirements and if travel is necessary to complete the fitness screening, I may incur additional expenses.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not applicable, I am a current Marine Interdiction Agent
9. New recruits to the position of Marine Interdiction Agent (MIA) receive extensive training before beginning official duties. The statements of understanding below represent some, but not all, of the conditions of employment of the MIA occupation. If you answer no to one or more of the following Conditions of Employment questions, you will be disqualified from further consideration for the MIA position.

I verify and understand that I:

Must have and maintain a valid US driver's license
Will be required to arrest or assist in the arrest of individuals in violation of law(s) and may also be required to testify under oath to the circumstances of the arrest
Will be required enforce all Federal laws without exception regardless of your personal feelings about these laws and regulations
Will be required to qualify with and maintain proficiency in the use of firearms
Must be prepared to defend self and others from physical attacks and may be involved in physical or altercations even the use of lethal weapons while attempting to arrest suspects
Will be required to serve a probationary period
Will be required to successfully complete 15 weeks of Air and Marine Basic Training (AMBT) at the Air and Marine Operations Academy in Glynco, GA. The training is comprised of formalized courses of basic technical instruction necessary to perform the duties of the position, including a swim/water survival course. Additionally, selectee(s) must successfully complete the following training programs: Spanish Language training course; Initial Survival Training course; Aircraft-specific Flight Training course; and Standardized Tactical Aviation Training (STAT) course.
Subject to mobility at the agency's discretion within and outside the continental U.S. at any time during my tenure with CBP AMO
Am required to wear a prescribed uniform and to comply with established grooming standards
Must be willing and available for work at any time their presence and skills are required. Regular work schedules are: on weekends, evenings and nights, holidays and unscheduled overtime as CBP determines necessary
Must be willing to work with others on a professional basis, with mutual respect, regardless of racial, cultural, religious, political or other differences
May be required to engage in strenuous physical exertion, such as heavy lifting, crouching or crawling in restricted areas, climbing, and running
May be assigned and willing to accept placement to small, remote locations or large metropolitan areas in which there are people whose cultures are significantly different from my own
May be exposed to all kinds of weather and environmental conditions, such as flights of long duration and under unusually stressful conditions, as well as in-flight hazards such as weather, hazardous terrain, physiological and equipment capabilities
Required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug-screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment
I have read the above Conditions of Employment and understand that these conditions are a requirement for appointment to an Marine Interdiction Agent position.

I hereby certify to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information provided by me is true, correct, and complete and made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this inquiry may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. False or fraudulent information provided herein is also criminally punishable pursuant to federal law, including 10 U.S.C.1001.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Provisions of Public Laws 93-350 and 100-238 allow the imposition of a maximum age for initial appointment to a primary Law Enforcement Officer position within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In accordance with DHS Management Directive 251-03, the "day before an individual's 37th birthday" is the maximum age for original appointment to a position as a primary law enforcement officer within DHS. NOTE: The Commissioner of CBP has approved a temporary increase in the maximum allowable age to 40 for original placement into a law enforcement position. In accordance with Department of Homeland Security Directive 251-03, unless the below criteria applies, you must meet this age requirement by the date of referral to the hiring manager.

Creditable law enforcement officer service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8401(36) (as a Customs and Border Protection Officer) on or after July 6, 2008, may be applied toward the maximum age requirement. This age restriction may not apply if you are currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) law enforcement position covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).

Veterans Preference Eligibility: To ensure compliance with statutes pertaining to the appointment of preference eligible veterans as determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board in its recent decision of Isabella v. Dept. of State, the maximum age for original appointment articulated above shall not apply to the hiring of individuals entitled to veterans preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312. You must submit proof of Veteran's Preference (DD-214 Member 4 Copy) at the time of application.

Will you be less than 40 years of age at the closing date of this announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have creditable federal civilian (not military) service under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c), Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service on or after July 6, 2008 covered by Public Law 110-161 that may be applied toward the maximum age requirement
 C. Not applicable. The age restriction does not apply to me because I am currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) position and the retirement covered under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
 D. Not Applicable. The age restriction does not apply because I am entitled to veterans’ preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312
 E. No, I will not be less than 40 years of age at the closing date of this announcement and DO NOT meet any of the exceptions listed above. I understand that this will remove me from receiving further consideration under this announcement.
Assessment 1
1. The Marine Interdiction Agent position requires the successful completion of the following pre-employment requirements:
Polygraph examination
Background investigation
Drug test
Fitness examination
If you are not willing to complete these requirements then the agency recommends you exit the online job application and not proceed further.

Are you willing to complete the above pre-employment requirements?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. CBP is committed to a drug-free workplace. This position requires drug testing as part of the pre-employment process and requires random drug testing after you enter on duty. Note: Several states now allow recreational and medicinal use of marijuana. However, CBP does not permit the use of marijuana as it is still an illegal drug per Federal law. By submitting this application, you acknowledge and understand that you must successfully pass a drug test during the pre-employment process and that the Agency will remove you from consideration if you do not successfully pass the drug test. Additionally, should you enter on duty as an employee, you will be required to participate in random drug testing in accordance with the Agency's drug-free workplace policy. Do you wish to continue with your application?

 A. Yes
 B. No
The Anti-Border Corruption Act of 2010 requires all job applicants for law enforcement positions at U.S. Customs & Border Protection to receive a polygraph examination and a background investigation before being offered employment. Please read the following questions and answers carefully!
3. Are you willing to undergo a polygraph examination for this position?

 A. Yes, I am willing to take a polygraph examination
 B. No, I am not willing to take a polygraph examination
 C. Not applicable, I am a current CBP Law Enforcement Officer (i.e., BPA, CBPO, AIA or MIA)
4. Have you taken and FAILED a CBP polygraph examination within the last two years?

 A. No, I have NOT FAILED a CBP polygraph examination within the last two years
 B. Yes, I have failed a CBP polygraph examination within the last two years
PENALTIES FOR INACCURATE OR FALSE STATEMENTS: The U.S. Criminal Code (Title 18, section 1001) provides that knowingly falsifying or concealing a material fact is a felony which may result in fines and/or up to five (5) years imprisonment. In addition, Federal agencies generally fire, do not grant a security clearance to, or disqualify individuals who have materially and deliberately falsified these forms. Such actions remains a part of the permanent record for future placements. Your prospects of placement or security clearance are better if you answer all questions truthfully and completely.
5. Are you willing to undergo a background investigation for this position?

 A. Yes, I am willing to undergo a background investigation for this position
 B. No, I am not willing to undergo a background investigation for this position
FIREARM REQUIREMENT: This position requires that the incumbent meet initial and continuing qualifications in the use of firearms as outlined in the Gun Control Act of 1968, amended by the Lautenberg Amendment of 1996. An applicant whose background includes any of the following will be ineligible for consideration: 1) convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment exceeding one year; 2) has any outstanding warrants or is a fugitive from justice; 3) unlawful user of or addicted to any controlled substance; 4) adjudicated as a mental defective or has been committed to a mental institution; 5) illegally or unlawfully in the United States; 6) renounced U. S. citizenship; 7) subject to a court-ordered restraining (protection) order from harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner (spouse, former spouse, parent of applicant's child, individual who cohabitates or has cohabitated with the applicant), or child; or 8) convicted under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child.
6. Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Have you ever been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year?

 A. No, I have never been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year
 B. Yes, I have been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year
10. Have you ever lost your right to possess a firearm for any reason under Federal law?

 A. No, I have never lost my right to possess a firearm
 B. Yes, I have lost my right to possess a firearm but my right has been fully restored under Federal law
 C. Yes, I have lost my right to possess a firearm and my right has NOT been fully restored under Federal law
11. Have you used (including injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, etc.), experimented with, received, purchased, transferred, or distributed marijuana/THC, anabolic steroids, prescription drugs, or inhalants? Drug usage information will be taken into consideration during the background investigation

 A. Never
 B. Yes, and I understand that I will be required to provide detailed information regarding this, and it will be taken into consideration during my background investigation
12. Excluding above - Have you used (including but not limited to injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, etc.), experimented with, received, purchased, transferred, or distributed a Schedule I-V controlled substance? Examples of controlled substances include cocaine or crack cocaine (e.g, rock, freebase, etc.), hallucinogenics (e.g, LSD, PCP, mushrooms, peyote, mescaline, etc.), ketamine (e.g., special K, jet, etc.), narcotics (e.g., opium, heroin, etc.), stimulants (e.g., speed, crystal meth, ecstasy, etc.), Drug usage information will be taken into consideration during the background investigation.

 A. Never
 B. 0-3 Years ago
 C. 3-7 Years ago
 D. 7 or More years ago
13. Prior to your 18th birthday did you enter the U.S. illegally and subsequently initiate action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18?

 A. Yes, I initiated action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18
 B. Yes, I did enter the U.S. illegally but DID NOT initiate action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18
 C. Not applicable, I am a U.S. citizen OR I did not enter the U.S. PRIOR to my 18th birthday.
14. After the age of 18, did you ever enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S. without legal immigration status?

 A. No, I did not enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S.
 B. Yes, I did enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S.
 C. Not Applicable, I am a U.S. citizen OR I did not enter the U.S. illegally after my 18th birthday
15. Have you ever been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18?

 A. No, I have never been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18
 B. Yes, I have been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18
16. Are you currently married to or living with any person(s) illegally residing in the U.S.?

 A. No, I am not currently married to or living with any person(s) illegally residing in the U.S.
 B. Yes, I am currently married to or living with any person(s) illegally residing in the U.S.
17. Did you knowingly marry an undocumented noncitizen for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status?

 A. No, I did not knowingly marry an undocumented noncitizen for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status
 B. Yes, I did knowingly marry an undocumented noncitizen for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status
18. Did you knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status?

 A. No, I did not knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status
 B. Yes, I did knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status
19. Have you ever intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an undocumented noncitizen(s)?

 A. No, I have never intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an undocumented noncitizen(s)
 B. Yes, I have intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an undocumented noncitizen(s)
20. Have you ever kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will?

 A. No, I have not kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will
 B. Yes, I have kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will
21. Have you ever been convicted of any crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value?

 A. No, I have never been convicted of any crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value
 B. Yes, I have been convicted of a crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value
22. Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997?

 A. No, I have not engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997
 B. Yes, I have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997
23. Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?

 A. No, I have not been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity
 B. Yes, I have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity
24. Are you a current law enforcement officer who is currently under investigation for a use-of-force incident?

 A. No, I not a current law enforcement officer currently being investigated for a use-of-force incident.
 B. Yes, I am currently holding a law enforcement position and am currently being investigated for a use-of-force incident.
25. Have you ever been terminated from a law enforcement position because you were found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident?

 A. No, I have not been terminated from a law enforcement position because I was found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident.
 B. Yes, I was terminated from a law enforcement position because I was found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident.
26. Have you ever deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography after the age of 18 (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18)?

 A. No, I have never deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18).
 B. Yes, I have deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18).
27. U.S. Customs and Border Protection has a residency requirement that applies to all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three (3) of the last five (5) years before completing an application for CBP employment. Primary residence is defined as the place where an individual physically resides and the place from which he or she commutes to an official duty station. An individual may have more than one residence (including but not limited to a second home, a vacation home, or an investment property), but can establish only one primary residence. If hired for this position, you will be required to maintain your primary residence in the United States.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two (2) of the last five (5) years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency waiver by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military; or
A dependent of a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. Government; or
Working as a contractor employee, a volunteer, a consultant or an intern for the U.S. Government, or
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university

If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception to the residency requirement.

Do you meet the U.S. Customs and Border Protection residency requirement?

 A. Yes, I have lived in the United States (or one of its territories or protectorates) for at least three (3) of the last five (5) years prior to submitting this application.
 B. Yes, for at least three (3) of the last five (5) years prior to submitting this application, I have maintained United States residency by one or more of the following conditions: 1) worked for the U.S. Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or military capacity or 2) was a dependent of a U.S. Federal or military employee serving overseas.
 C. No, I do not meet the residency requirement and am therefore requesting an exception to the policy and I can provide documentation of my eligibility for a residency waiver from a stateside-based company, school, and/or individual(s) who will account for any periods of my residency outside of the United States during at least three (3) of the last five (5) years prior to submitting this application.
 D. No, I do not meet the residency requirement and am NOT requesting a waiver for an exception to the residency requirement and I understand that I will not be considered for this job announcement.
Assessment 2
The first question below is a screen out, failure to meet the requirement will remove you from consideration.
1. I have a current (dated within last 5 years) U.S. Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Credentials.
 A. Operator Uninspected Passenger Vessel (OUPV)
 B. Mate of 200 gross tons or greater (Inland, Great Lakes, Near Coastal or Oceans)
 C. Chief Mate, Second Mate and Third Mate Unlimited Oceans
 D. Master of 25 GRT or greater (Inland, Great Lakes, Near Coastal or Oceans)
 E. I have applied for my USCG Merchant Mariner Credential (MMC) and awaiting its official issuance. *Select the capacity you applied for from the above list. You must submit a copy of your USCG MMC MMLD Application Status showing it has been accepted and the date it was accepted by the USCG. You must have your qualifying USCG issued MMC in-hand at time of vessel assessment.
 F. I have none of the above
2. Merchant Mariner Credential Number or Mariner number from your MMLD.
(limit 100 characters)
3. Expiration Date of your Merchant Mariner Credentials (MM/DD/YYYY) or N/A if submitting a MMLD.
(limit 100 characters)
4. MMLD APPLICANTS - Please enter the Capacity of your MMLD.
(limit 100 characters)
5. Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-11 grade level?

 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that included: independently applying advanced skill in controlling/commanding law enforcement scenes to include conducting searches, making arrests, processing arrests and seizure of evidence and property; conducting investigative inquiries using various techniques, examining files and records, physical and documentary evidence to identify logical conclusions; utilizing cameras and other electronic high-tech surveillance equipment to gather evidence, collect, evaluate, and then preserve that physical and documentary evidence; highly skilled in writing comprehensive arrest, criminal and incident reports; assisting government or state attorneys in preparation for court cases or grand juries, testifies as a law enforcement officer in court proceedings, and administrative forums.
 B. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M.
 C. I have a combination of successfully completed post-bachelors? education and experience as listed above in A and B.
 D. I do not possess the education or experience described above.
6. Available to enter on duty. (Month/Date/Year)
(limit 200 characters)
7. Promotion Requirements Acknowledgement
In addition to meeting the standard requirements for promotion to the next higher grade level, you will be required to possess certain U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) licensing AND certain Air and Marnie Operations (AMO) Training certifications. It is possible that you will not be eligible to advance to the next higher grade level at the 52-week mark. Promotions will be processed once all grade level requirements have been satisfied.

Licensing requirements for promotion to the next higher grade level are possession of a USCG MMC with one of the following capacities:
GS-11 (OUPV, Mate, Chief Mate, Second Mate, Third Mate, Master)
GS-12 (Master or Offshore Vessel Commander); successful completion of the Tactical Boarding Officer (TBO) course AND the initial certification training for Vessel Commander (VC) at the National Marine Training Center (NMTC).
GS-13 (Master or Higher) of any tonnage or higher, 1 year of qualifying law enforcement experience AND the CBP Interceptor Vessel Commander (VC) certification with designation at the CBP National Marine Training Center (NMTC).

 A. Yes, I understand that I may not will not be promoted the next higher grade level at the 52-week if I do not possess licensing and certifications at that time. Promotions will be processed once all grade level requirements have been satisfied.
 B. No, I do not understand.
Please answer the following questions in relationship to Air and Marine Operations (AMO) Re-competition Rules for Marine Interdiction Agent (MIA) candidates to ensure that AMO recruits and hires the highest quality applicants. AMO's MIA assessment is 3 parts and includes the written exam, practical exercise, and structured interview.
8. Have you failed any part of the MIA 3-part assessment within the last 90 days?

 A. Yes, I acknowledge that I must wait 90 days from the date of my FIRST attempt, before retaking the portion(s) of the assessment I failed or failed to complete.
 B. No, I have not failed any part of the MIA 3-part assessment within the last 90 days.
9. Have you failed any part of the MIA 3-part assessment for the second time within the last 6 months?

 A. Yes, I acknowledge that I must wait 6 months from the date of my SECOND attempt, before retaking the portion(s) of the assessment I failed or failed to complete.
 B. No, I have not failed any part of the MIA 3-part assessment on my SECOND attempt within the last 6 months.
10. Have you failed any part of the MIA 3-part assessment three or more times?
 A. Yes, I acknowledge that I must wait 1 year from the date of my THIRD attempt, before becoming eligible to retake the MIA 3-part assessment.
 B. No, I have not failed any part of the MIA 3-part assessment on my THIRD attempt within the last year.
11. I certify that I have the experience as the captain or sole manipulator of a vessel in all environments, including night, poor weather, unfavorable visibility and stressful conditions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience in performing or participating in overt operations in uniform and in a marked unit (for example, patrol car, branded vessel).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have performed overt operations in uniform and in a marked unit under the direct supervision of a supervisor or other more senior individual.
 C. I have independently performed overt operations in uniform and in a marked unit.
 D. I have supervised or directed others in the performance of overt operations in uniform and in a marked unit.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience in inspecting various documents (for example, driver's license, passport, birth certificate) to determine citizenship or alien status.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received formal training in inspecting various documents to determine citizenship or alien status, but have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have independently inspected documents to determine citizenship or alien status.
 D. I have instructed or supervised others in inspecting documents to determine citizenship or alien status.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience in making contact and cooperating with persons in the general community and other law enforcement agencies to gather/share intelligence information regarding illegal activities.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made contacts with the general community to gather information regarding illegal activities.
 C. I have made contacts with the general community to gather information regarding illegal activities, and have shared information with other law enforcement agencies.
 D. I have made contacts with the general community to gather information regarding illegal activities, to include cultivating informants. I have developed and maintained cooperative relationships with other law enforcement agencies to gather and share intelligence information. I have used information gathered from these sources to build successful cases.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience in performing "stop and arrest" techniques.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in performing "stop and arrest" techniques, but I have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have performed "stop and arrest" techniques under the guidance of a supervisor or other more senior individual.
 D. I have independently performed "stop and arrest" techniques.
 E. I have supervised or directed others in performing "stop and arrest" techniques.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience in seizing evidence and instruments/fruits of crime (for example, narcotics, contraband).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in seizing evidence and instruments/fruits of crime, but I have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have seized evidence and instruments/fruits of crime under the guidance of a supervisor or other more senior individual.
 D. I have independently seized evidence and instruments/fruits of crime.
 E. I have supervised or directed others in seizing evidence and instruments/fruits of crime.
17. Indicate the extent of your experience in monitoring furtive behavior patterns, body language, mannerisms, and speech to identify suspicious behaviors and establish cause for detention.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received formal training in monitoring furtive behavior patterns, body language, mannerisms, and speech to identify suspicious behaviors and establish cause for detention, but have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have monitored individuals' furtive behavior patterns, body language, mannerisms, and speech to identify suspicious behaviors and establish cause for detention, and have made detentions leading to arrests based on this information.
 D. I have instructed or supervised others in monitoring individuals' furtive behavior patterns, body language, mannerisms, and speech to identify suspicious behaviors and establish cause for detention. I have guided others in making detentions leading to arrests based on such monitoring.
18. Indicate the extent of your experience in searching persons, vessels, baggage, and cargo for contraband or weapons incidental to detention or arrest.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in searching persons, vessels, baggage, and cargo for contraband or weapons incidental to detention or arrest, but I have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have searched persons, vessels, baggage, and cargo for contraband or weapons incidental to detention or arrest under the guidance of a supervisor or other more senior individual.
 D. I have independently searched persons, vessels, baggage, and cargo for contraband or weapons incidental to detention or arrest.
 E. I have supervised or directed others in searching persons, vessels, baggage, and cargo for contraband or weapons incidental to detention or arrest. I have conducted searches for contraband within false or concealed access compartments.
19. Do you have experience boarding and searching vessels in open waters?

 A. No.
 B. Yes.
20. Indicate the extent of your experience in interviewing suspects to determine if a violation has been committed.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received formal training in interviewing suspects to determine if a violation has been committed, but have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have independently interviewed suspects to determine if a violation has been committed.
 D. I have independently interviewed suspects and obtained confessions or admissions of criminal activity.
21. Indicate the extent of your experience in recognizing document fraud, counterfeit, and photo-altered documents (for example, driver's licenses, operating permits, passports, firearm permits).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received formal training in recognizing document fraud, counterfeit, and photo-altered documents, but have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have recognized document fraud, counterfeit, and photo-altered documents and referred them to my supervisor or other more senior individual for appropriate action.
 D. I have independently recognized document fraud, counterfeit, and photo-altered documents, and taken appropriate law enforcement action.
 E. I have instructed or supervised others in recognizing document fraud, counterfeit, and photo-altered documents, and have taken appropriate law enforcement action in response to detection of such documents.
22. Indicate the extent of your experience in utilizing automated violator and suspect information systems and databases for enforcement operations (for example, NCIC, NADDIS, or TECS).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in the utilization of automated violator and suspect information systems and databases for enforcement operations, but I have not used this technology on the job.
 C. I have utilized automated violator and suspect information systems and databases to research or target potential suspects or threats to the United States or U.S. interests under the guidance of a supervisor or other more senior individual.
 D. I have independently utilized automated violator and suspect information systems and databases to research or target potential suspects or threats to the United States or U.S. interests.
23. Select the choice which best describes your experience conducting interviews of witnesses or other sources for the purposes of verifying facts and obtaining specific pieces of information.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been an assistant to others in conducting interviews of witnesses or other sources for the purposes of verifying facts and obtaining specific pieces of information (for example, I have taken notes on questions asked by others or contributed to a line of questioning).
 C. I have independently conducted interviews of witnesses or other sources for the purposes of verifying facts and obtaining specific pieces of information.
 D. I have independently conducted interviews of witnesses or other sources for the purposes of verifying facts and obtaining specific pieces of information. I have used this information to build a case or otherwise support a law enforcement action.
24. Do you have experience advising violators of their Miranda rights?

 A. No.
 B. Yes.
25. Indicate the extent of your experience in initiating limited investigations to establish a prima facie case.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in initiating preliminary investigations to establish a prima facie case.
 C. I have initiated preliminary investigations to establish a prima facie case under the guidance of a supervisor or other more senior individual.
 D. I have independently initiated preliminary investigations to establish prima facie cases.
 E. I have supervised or directed others in initiating preliminary investigations to establish prima facie cases.
26. Do you have experience contributing sworn statements for criminal complaints?

 A. No.
 B. Yes.
27. Have you testified under oath before grand jury, criminal and civil proceedings, and/or other domestic legal proceedings?

 A. No.
 B. Yes.
28. Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate with all levels of employees and the public, and resolve conflicts as needed.

 A. I have conferred with others in my work unit on an individual basis.
 B. I have communicated with others within my organization to resolve problems, prevent potential conflicts, and ensure technical and operational requirements were met as part of my regular job duties.
 C. I have communicated extensively with others within my organization to reach/build consensus on problems/issues that have arisen.
 D. I have communicated extensively with others both inside and outside my organization to present sensitive briefings, served as a liaison with other organizations, or participated on interagency task forces on special projects.
29. Indicate the extent of your experience in developing strategies to effect a successful stop of conveyances and people (for example, determine how to make approach, determine safest location to stop violator).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in developing strategies to effect a successful stop of conveyances and people, but I have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have assisted others in developing strategies to effect a successful stop of conveyances and people.
 D. I have independently developed strategies to effect a successful stop of conveyances and people.
 E. I have supervised or directed others in developing strategies to effect a successful stop of conveyances and people.
30. Indicate the extent of your experience in writing reports of interdiction or investigative activities (for example, seizure reports, incident reports, operational plans, after-action reports, reports of investigation).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided input into the interdiction or investigative reports written by others.
 C. I have independently written interdiction or investigative reports. My work received minimal review and revision by a supervisor or other senior individual.
 D. I have had supervisory authority over the written interdiction or investigative reports of others to ensure correctness and completeness.
31. Indicate the extent of your experience in handling and processing evidence.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in handling and processing evidence, but I have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have been part of the chain of custody for evidence, but I was not the person ultimately responsible for its disposition.
 D. I have been responsible for handling and processing evidence throughout the full chain of evidence from acquisition to disposition, including completing the relevant documentation.
 E. I have supervised others in the handling and processing of evidence, making sure that the chain of custody was appropriately maintained and documented.
32. Indicate the extent of your experience in detecting speech mannerisms and differences in attire and customs of aliens.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received formal training in detecting speech mannerisms and differences in attire and customs of aliens, but have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have independently detected speech mannerisms and differences in attire and customs of aliens and used this information to inform law enforcement decisions and activities.
33. Indicate the extent of your experience in coordinating assets/resources to conduct critical or emergency operations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have contacted assets/resources under the direction of the individual in charge of critical or emergency operations.
 C. I have directed assets/resources for coordinated response to critical or emergency operations.
34. Indicate the highest level of boating license that you have acquired.

 A. I currently do not have a boating license of any type.
 B. I currently have a state issued boating license.
 C. I currently have a United States Coast Guard operators of uninspected passenger vessels license (AKA 6-pak).
 D. I currently have a United States Coast Guard Master license (any tonnage).
35. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring pre- and post-readiness of a vessel by verifying that the mechanical systems were operable.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have carried out tasks related to ensuring pre- and post-readiness of a vessel under the guidance of a supervisor or other senior individual.
 C. I have independently ensured the pre- and post-readiness of vessels by verifying that the mechanical systems were operable.
 D. I have supervised or directed others in performing pre- and post- readiness checks of vessels by verifying that the mechanical systems were operable.
36. Indicate the extent to which you have operated a variety of vessels (for example, high-speed intercept boats, yachts, or commercial fishing boats).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have operated one type of vessel.
 C. I have operated a variety of vessels.
 D. I have commanded a variety of vessels as the vessel captain, with overall responsibility for the safety of the crew and the safe operation of the vessel.
37. Indicate the extent to which you have operated a vessel in adverse navigable conditions (for example, low visibility, poor weather, unfamiliar waters, hazardous conditions, or rough seas).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have operated a vessel in adverse navigable conditions in a safe and responsible manner.
 C. I have been in command of (for example, as a vessel captain) a vessel operating in adverse navigable conditions in a safe and responsible manner.
 D. I have instructed others in operating vessels in adverse navigable conditions in a marine environment.
38. Do you have experience in interpreting hydrographic conditions in unfamiliar waters (wind, current, set and drift, etc.)?

 A. No.
 B. Yes.
39. Indicate the extent of your experience in using marine navigation techniques such as dead reckoning navigation, chart plotting, interpretation of marine charts and the utilization of electronic navigation equipment.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have used navigation techniques such as dead reckoning, chart plotting, interpretation of marine charts, and the utilization of electronic navigation equipment in a recreational capacity.
 C. I have used navigation techniques such as dead reckoning, chart plotting, interpretation of marine charts and the utilization of electronic navigation equipment in a professional capacity.
 D. I have trained others in the use of navigation techniques such as dead reckoning, chart plotting, interpretation of marine charts and the utilization of electronic navigation equipment.
40. Indicate the extent to which you have received formal training in maritime law enforcement.

 A. I have not received formal training in this area.
 B. I have received formal training in state and/or local maritime law enforcement.
 C. I have received formal training in Federal maritime law enforcement.
41. Indicate the extent of your experience in conducting marine patrol, surveillance, and pursuit activities related to the interdiction of illicit activities and smuggled contraband via vessels and land vehicles.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in conducting marine patrol, surveillance, and pursuit activities related to the interdiction of illicit activities and smuggled contraband via vessels and land vehicles.
 C. I have served as the vessel commander responsible for conducting marine patrol, surveillance and pursuit activities related to the interdiction of illicit activities and smuggled contraband via vessels and land vehicles.
42. Indicate the extent of your experience in maneuvering in close proximity to other vessels.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been part of a vessel crew responsible for maneuvering in close proximity to other vessels.
 C. I have commanded vessels maneuvering in close proximity to other vessels. I operated these vessels as the vessel captain, with overall responsibility for the safety of the crew and the safe operation of the vessel.
43. Do you have experience in using land, marine, or aircraft-based tactical sensors and other detection devices/assets to detect smugglers?

 A. No.
 B. Yes.
44. Indicate the extent of your experience operating radar systems capable of multiple target acquisition, electronic navigation systems, fathometers, and communication suites.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have operated radar systems capable of multiple target acquisition, electronic navigation systems, fathometers, and communication suites in a recreational capacity.
 C. I have operated radar systems capable of multiple target acquisition, electronic navigation systems, fathometers, and communication suites in a professional capacity.
 D. I have trained others in the use of radar systems capable of multiple target acquisition, electronic navigation systems, fathometers, and communication suites.
45. Indicate the extent of your experience in coordinating aviation assets for operational purposes.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have contacted aviation assets under the direction of the individual in charge of interdiction operations.
 C. I have coordinated with aviation assets in order to facilitate the interdiction of illegal activities.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements. These are not screen-out questions.
We are interested in your feedback regarding the type of advertisement that BEST impacted your decision to apply for THIS job with CBP.
46. Where did you learn about employment with CBP that BEST impacted your decision to apply for this position at this time? Select only one.

--Select-- 
--Select--
By attending and/or speaking with a recruiter at a virtual or in-person event/expo/job fair/classroom instruction/seminar, or by being referred by a career assistance program.
Search engine search, online banner, blog, online video, or social media
An email
Job board
Printed advertisement, outdoor banner/billboard, radio ad, or TV/film ad
By speaking with someone who was not a recruiter
Explorer program or previous CBP employment experience
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
CBP.gov
By speaking with a CBP recruiter
Other, (please specify the job board name below)
47. If you chose "Other" in the previous question, please add your response below. Otherwise, please enter N/A.

48. Please provide the five-digit zip code of where you attended an event, saw an advertisement, or otherwise decided to apply for this position based on your response in the previous question.

49. Please provide the month (MM) and year (YYYY) you attended an event or saw an advertisement, below. If this does not apply to you, please enter N/A.

50. If a "job board" influenced you the MOST to apply to this position, where did you see the advertisement?

 A. CBP.gov (please specify the key words used to find this job)
 B. Indeed (please specify the key words used to find this job)
 C. Monster (please specify the key words used to find this job)
 D. LinkedIn (please specify the key words used to find this job)
 E. CareerBuilder (please specify the key words used to find this job)
 F. ZipRecruiter (please specify the key words used to find this job)
 G. ClearanceJobs (please specify the key words used to find this job)
 H. Talent Network /Recruitment Application
 I. Other (please specify the job board name below)
 J. No, a job board did not provide the most influence in my decision to apply to this position.
51. If you chose "Other or No" in the previous question, please add your response below. Otherwise, please enter N/A.

52. What was your main incentive to apply to this position? (Select only one)

--Select-- 
--Select--
Promotion opportunities
Salary
Overtime pay
Health, Life, or Long Term Care Benefits
Retirement benefits
Veterans Preference
College tuition reimbursement
Free academy training
CBP's mission
Geographic location
Career stability
Relocation assistance/bonus
Recruitment bonus
G.I. Bill
Federal experience to transition to another law enforcement agency
Other (please specify below).
53. If you chose "Other" in the previous question, please add your response below.

 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected