Position Title
Program Analyst (Data Analyst)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
PARE-IMP-12805099-CCL Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 22, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes gathering, evaluating, interpreting, and presenting data to support leadership decision-making; conducting statistical projections, operational outcome modeling, and data visualizations to address CBP challenges; performing research into current or proposed policy initiatives to brief CBP leadership on the impact to operations; and promoting interaction between CBP and DHS components to foster effective statistical reporting and analytics.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
7. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate the extent of your experience in planning and conducting analytic projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in planning and conducting analytic projects (i.e., preparing requirements).
 C. I have independently planned and conducted analytic projects (i.e., preparing requirements, modifying existing processes).
 D. I have planned and conducted several analytic projects (i.e., preparing requirements, modifying existing processes) and developed new processes.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience recommending new or improved methods of data collection.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have recommended improved methods of data collection to my supervisor.
 C. I have recommended new and improved methods of data collection to my supervisor and other management officials within my organization.
 D. I have recommended new and improved methods of data collection to management officials internal and external to my organization.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience providing technical advice to management officials.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided my team leader or supervisor the information needed to provide technical advice to management officials.
 C. I have provided technical advice to management officials within my organization.
 D. I have provided technical advice to management officials internal and external to my organization. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience in conducting research projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others who were responsible for designing and conducting research projects.
 C. I have been responsible for segments of one or more research projects (i.e., planning, analyzing).
 D. I have designed and led one research project (i.e., identifying, planning, executing, analyzing, interpreting, and reporting of findings).
 E. I have designed and led multiple research projects(i.e., identifying, planning, executing, analyzing, interpreting, and reporting of findings).
5. Indicate the extent of your experience in assembling documentation in accordance with instructions or guidelines.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in assembling documentation (i.e., of procedures, findings, recommendations) following their instructions and guidelines.
 C. I have assembled routine documentation (i.e., of procedures, findings, recommendations) in accordance with instructions or guidelines.
 D. I have assembled complex documentation (i.e., of procedures, findings, problems encountered, recommendations) in accordance with instructions, or guidelines.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience developing graphics and reports based on interpretation of data.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have experience developing simple graphics and reports based on interpretation of the data.
 C. I have experience developing simple and complex graphics and reports based on interpretation of the data.
 D. I have trained others on how to develop complex graphics and reports based on interpretation of the data. I have created templates that are used by my organization.
7. Indicate the extent to which you have orally presented information to all levels of employees, management, and/or other departments or programs.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have notified supervisors, managers, or offices orally of decisions, problems, or further actions needed. In addition, I have informally explained the organization’s mission, programs, or services to others.
 C. I have given formal presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings, and acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 D. I have given formal presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings of technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
 E. I have given formal presentations to multi-agency workgroups of technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of one or more reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently completed formal written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses. I have successfully tailored written information to the technical knowledge of my audience.
9. Select the statement that best describes how you have typically planned and organized your work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have followed a schedule, goals, and guidelines prepared by and monitored by my supervisor.
 C. I have set short-term goals and priorities for my own work to ensure that deadlines were met.
 D. I have set short- and long-term goals and priorities for my own work and coordinated activities and timelines with others to ensure that project goals and deadlines were met.
 E. I have set project requirements and short- and long-term priorities for a work team, developed strategies to achieve goals, and coordinated work requirements, resources, and personnel within the team.
10. Do you have experience applying data management and analysis techniques to study, gather, interpret, develop, and report on operational policy and resource data?

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Indicate the extent of your experience evaluating and monitoring the execution of analytic projects to ensure implementation will yield relevant and accurate results.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have monitored the execution of analytic projects to ensure implementation will yield relevant and accurate results.
 C. I have evaluated and monitored the execution of analytic projects to ensure implementation will yield relevant and accurate results. I have made recommendations for improvement to my supervisor.
 D. I have evaluated and monitored the execution of analytic projects to ensure implementation will yield relevant and accurate results. I have made recommendations for improvement to agency officials.
12. Have you ever served as a project manager or office representative for multi-office teams?

 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Do you have experience serving as an expert on current analytical tools and techniques (i.e., data creation and utilization principles).

 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Indicate the extent of your experience analyzing and evaluating the accuracy of data.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have analyzed and evaluated the accuracy of data created from individual sources. My work was reviewed by my supervisor.
 C. I have analyzed and evaluated the accuracy of data created from multiple sources. Any issues were brought to others to resolve.
 D. I have analyzed and evaluated the accuracy of data created from multiple sources and resolved any discrepancies in the data that were found.
 E. I have trained others on how to analyze and evaluate the accuracy of data using analytical tools and methodologies. Complex issues with data were brought to me for resolution.
15. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of principles and methods of management, administration, and process improvement.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have basic knowledge of principles and methods of management, administration, and process improvement that I learned in school or training.
 C. I have working knowledge of principles and methods of management, administration, and process improvement that I learned in school or training and my experiences on the job.
 D. I have expert knowledge of principles and methods of management, administration, and process improvement from training, on-the-job experience, and continuing education.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected