Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator (Special Agent-in-Charge)
Agency
Office of the Inspector General
Announcement Number
USDA-OIG-MP-12779298-25-FB Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 19, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions (this means an honorable or general discharge) AND you either:
• retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30 percent or more; OR 
• rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) since 1991 or later to include disability determinations from a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, as having a compensable service-connected disability of 30 percent or more. 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty?

-OR-

Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?

-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

 For more information, review USAJOBS Help Center Military Spouses 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former permanent Farm Service Agency County employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current Federal employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a Federal employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
9.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who is claiming eligibility under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act and: 

• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,

• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a single break in service of two or more years; and,
• performed at an acceptable level during each period of service; and,

• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and whose most recent separation was for reasons other than misconduct or performance.
  
Note: Service must be in the competitive service and have been at a successful level of performance or better.  Part-time and intermittent service will be credited only for time actually worked.  Non-pay status (such as LWOP) is credited for up to six months in a calendar year; anything beyond six months is not credited.  Applicants are responsible for providing sufficient information/documentation to determine if the 24 month criteria is met.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10.
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

 For more information, review  Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.
 
-OR-
 
 Are you a current:

• Postal Career Service Employee;

• Postal Rate Commission Employee;

• Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,

• Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee?

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a Peace Corps Volunteer or AmeriCorps VISTA Alumni who completed your service within the past 12 months; OR,

Are you a Peace Corps Volunteer or AmeriCorps VISTA Alumni who completed your service within the past 36 months AND you are requesting an extension of your non-competitive appointment eligibility due to your military service; study at a recognized institution of higher learning; or involvement in another activity, which the hiring agency may view warrants extension?  OR,

 Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who completed at least 36 months of continuous service without a break in service of 3 days or more AND has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12.
Do you have a severe intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14.
Are you a former Federal career or career-conditional employee AND

• has reinstatement eligibility; AND 
• has not held a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15.
Are you a former Federal career or career-conditional employee AND  

• has reinstatement eligibility; AND 
• has held a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16.
Are you:

• a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
• eligible for veterans' preference?

Note: If you are currently on active duty you may be considered under the two provisions above provided you submit  a certification of expected discharge or release from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is submitted. 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Jackson, MS
 B. Kansas City, MO
 C. Dallas, TX
 D. Temple, TX
2. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. All current federal employees must have a minimum performance rating of acceptable or higher to be considered for placement. Appraisal must be included in Applicant's submission. Current federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration. Note: Failure to select one of the below responses will render you ineligible for further consideration.
 A. I am a current federal employee and have a current acceptable performance rating or higher.
 B. I am a current federal employee and have a current unacceptable performance rating.
 C. I am a new current federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of this date.
 D. Not applicable, I am not a current federal employee.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please respond to the following questions. Any experience claimed in response to the questions MUST be supported by information in your resume. This information must be SPECIFIC, (i.e., duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments). Failure to provide supporting documentation may result in an ineligible rating.
1. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE - GS-15: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-14 level in the federal service that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. For this position, specialized experience is defined as coordinating, leading, supervising and directing policy, planning, managerial and operational activities; exercising a thorough and expert knowledge of investigative operations and activities such as conducting, planning, directing and coordinating complex criminal, civil and administrative investigations; providing strategy, direction and guidance to subordinate staff on complex and sensitive criminal, civil and administrative investigation processes not limited to fact-finding, conducting investigative interviews, analyzing facts and maintaining regional and/or headquarters reporting results of investigations procedures to ensure timely notification of incidents, notification to law enforcement units; providing technical assistance, training and consultation on investigative matters; and providing follow-up on the investigative process.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-14 level in the federal service experience is defined as coordinating, leading, supervising and directing policy, planning, managerial and operational activities; exercising a thorough and expert knowledge of investigative operations and activities such as conducting, planning, directing and coordinating complex criminal, civil and administrative investigations; providing strategy, direction and guidance to subordinate staff on complex and sensitive criminal, civil and administrative investigation processes not limited to fact-finding, conducting investigative interviews, analyzing facts and maintaining regional and/or headquarters reporting results of investigations procedures to ensure timely notification of incidents, notification to law enforcement units; providing technical assistance, training and consultation on investigative matters; and providing follow-up on the investigative process.
 B. My experience is not reflected in any of the statements above and I do not qualify for this position.
2. From the choice below, select the one statement that BEST describes your experience working within a law enforcement program.
 A. I have no experience working with law enforcement programs.
 B. I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions successfully.
 C. I have performed these functions as a regular part of my job within the law enforcement agencies that I have worked for.
 D. I am highly skilled at performing law enforcement duties within an agency. I routinely perform these duties independently and have carried them out successfully to enhance the efficiency of operations, achieve compliance, and solve problems for my employing organization. I am frequently sought out by my peers as a subject matter expert in this area.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
3. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your highest level of experience in applying laws of evidence, rules of criminal procedures, and precedent setting court decisions to gather investigative evidence.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
4. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your ability to develop and implement an organizational vision, which integrates key national and program goals, priorities, values and other factors, and creates a work environment that encourages creative thinking, maintains focus, intensity and persistence, even under adversity. (Select all that apply)
 A. Formulates long-term goals for an organization that are consistent with key organizational priorities and values and develops a shared vision of a desirable future state.
 B. Sets priorities and establishes strategies for implementing a vision which affect office, bureau, and agency-wide program(s)/project(s) at the key management level.
 C. Identifies the organization's key issues and develops strategies to build strengths and leads organizational change by adapting to present economic, political, social or technological factors.
 D. Redirects program activities in direction of a new strategic thrust, experience in setting priorities and establishing strategies for implementing vision.
 E. I do not have the experience described above.
5. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your ability to explain, advocate, and express facts and ideas in a convincing manner, and negotiate with individuals and groups internally and externally to develop an expansive professional network with other organizations, and to identify the internal and external politics that impact the work of the organization. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have used persuasion to change the decision, opinions, attitudes and behaviors of staff, higher-level management, congressional staff, internal and external customers, and stakeholders.
 B. I have brought opposing groups or individuals together in order to reconcile differences and accomplish organizational goals that affect a wide range of office activities, or the general public.
 C. I have represented the organization in negotiations with key managers, congressional staff and union officials; negotiates with other groups within the organization to obtain resources and/or services; negotiates with internal and external groups to facilitate programs or partnerships.
 D. I have collaborated with key individuals (e.g. higher-level managers, congressional staff, union officials, etc.) to implement a new controversial program or initiative and have represented the organization and its policies as chair of intra- or inter- office committees to build consensus.
 E. None of the above.
6. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes the type of work you have managed.
 A. Work is national in scope, subject to continual or intense congressional and media scrutiny or controversy; or has pervasive impact on the general public.
 B. Work is complex administrative or highly technical or professional and supports development of major regulatory, policy or comparable, highly technical programs. This work facilitates programs of national significance.
 C. Work is complex administrative, technical or professional and supports a State or several States (or similar organizational structures) on a wide range of activities affecting other agencies, the general public or other outside interests.
 D. Work is administrative, technical, complex clerical, or comparable in nature. Services are provided to field office activities.
 E. Work is procedural, routine, and provides services or products to small, local organizations and impacts the work of others in the immediate organization.
 F. None of the above.
7. From the choices below, select the one statement that BEST describes your experience in coordinating criminal investigative work with representatives of Federal, State and local law enforcement agencies.
 A. I have not performed theses duties as a regular part of my position.
 B. I have served as a member of an investigative team or group, providing assistance and support in carrying out the duties described above, under the guidance of team leader or senior-level investigator.
 C. I have performed this task independently with minimal monitoring by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have provided guidance to junior-level employees, coworkers, and resources provided by outside agencies in applying rules, regulations, and procedures when leading an investigation and collecting evidence.
 E. I have led a task force and provided guidance to outside agencies, provided recommendations to enhance the capabilities of the task force, and ensured compliance with applicable local, state, tribal, and Federal laws.
8. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your ability to make timely and effective decisions and produce results through strategic planning and the implementation and evaluation of programs and policies. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have developed ideas, programs, etc. that have a positive impact on a wide range of activities within the organization.
 B. I have identified opportunities to develop services within or outside the organization taking risks to pursue a benefit, advantage or savings for the organization.
 C. Anticipates and identifies potential or actual problems relating to the achievement of program goals and provides corrective actions and/or develops contingency plans.
 D. Develops leadership and professional skills by participating in professional, management or community activities, or serving on multi-functional committees.
 E. Takes initiative to organize the workload, balancing the interests and needs of clients and readjusting/adapting the workload and priorities to unforeseen demands and emergencies.
 F. None of the above.
9. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your ability to design and implement strategies which maximize employee potential and foster high ethical standards in meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have provided leadership to accomplish the goals for an organization by guiding and motivating others and gaining the confidence and active support of internal and external customers and stakeholder groups.
 B. I have assessed the needs and developed promotion potential opportunities for subordinate staff, while motivating employees by sharing credit for successful accomplishments (e.g. giving them opportunities to present their work), and recognizing employees through effective use of the organization's performance management and awards systems.
 C. I have maintained open and constructive channels of communication, serving as a formal or informal mentor for staff members and giving employees latitude to plan and perform work.
 D. I have fostered a work organization focused on the highest ethical and performance standards to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 E. None of the above.
10. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your ability to acquire and administer human, financial, material and information resources in a manner which instills public trust, accomplishes the organization's mission, and uses new technology to enhance decision making. (Select all that apply)
 A. Assesses current and future needs (staffing, financial, etc.) and establishes program/policy objectives and strategies to meet the organizational mission.
 B. Monitors and evaluates progress to ensure that program and policies are being implemented and adjusted as necessary to accomplish the organization's mission.
 C. Develops long range fiscal planning, while ensuring appropriate funding levels will be available in the present and the future.
 D. Uses results-oriented performance measures (quantity, cost, timeliness, quality of products or services) to support organizational goals.
 E. Evaluates program performance and project accomplishments to assess overall program effectiveness and efficiency.
 F. Assesses the present and future information systems and other technological resources to meet the organization's needs and have the ability to understand the impact of technology changes that occur in an organization.
 G. None of the above.
11. From the choices below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) your writing experience. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have written branch, division, or agency level policy statements, responses to congressional inquiries, and operational guidance.
 B. I have prepared technical material, rules, regulations, instructions, reports, charts, graphs, or tables for management presentations.
 C. I have drafted memorandums, reports, letters, etc., on behalf of the organization.
 D. I have drafted branch policy, procedures, memorandums, reports, letters, etc., for a supervisor.
 E. I have no experience in this area.
12. From the choices below, select the subject(s) in which you have prepared written reports or guidance in a law enforcement program. (Select all that apply)
 A. Resource protection
 B. Law enforcement plans
 C. Law enforcement policies
 D. Law enforcement special studies
 E. Investigative reports
 F. Procedure memoranda
 G. Agency policy
 H. Governmental department policy
 I. State policy
 J. None of the above
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
13. Analyzes trends to anticipate investigative direction, responsible for strategic planning and implementation as well as performance measurements, and manages the office budget.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
14. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected