Position Title
Lead International Trade Specialist
Agency
Trade and Development Agency
Announcement Number
TDA-25-MP-12790393MR Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Do you meet the following eligibility?

I am a current federal employee with the hiring agency.
To verify your eligibility as a current agency employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?

I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused  from the agency hiring for this position; and

I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; and
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Answer Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
For items 1 and 2, please read the following statements carefully. Your response to the following questions will determine whether you will be eligible for this position or not. If you respond "No" to any question in this section, you will not be eligible for consideration for this position.
1. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire will be true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I provide may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire will be true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
2. Are you willing to submit to an initial and periodic background and security investigation for a Secret or Top Secret Clearance, including a fingerprint check and a credit check?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you willing to complete an annual financial disclosure?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you willing to submit to random drug testing?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Select the ONE response that best describes the education you possess that demonstrates you meet the Basic Qualification Requirement for International Trade Specialist.
 A. I have undergraduate and/or graduate education in marketing, business administration, political science, public administration, history, business or commercial law, economics, finance, international trade, or international relations.
 B. I have experience that demonstrated knowledge of: marketing that included economic, psychological, and sociological influences bearing upon consumption patterns; business practices pertaining to wholesale, retail, manufacturers' distribution, distribution costs, finance and tax structure, and similar areas of activity or concern; and international economic and political factors influencing balance of payments, monetary exchange and tariffs, and their bearing on the distribution of commodities.
 C. I do not have education or experience of the type and/or amount described in items A and B above.
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.
6. For the International Trade Specialist, GS-1140-14: Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience that is equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the GS-13 level in the Federal service? Specialized experience is defined as experience that is in or directly related to the line of work of this position and has equipped you with the knowledge and competencies to successfully perform the duties of this position. More specifically, this requirement involves: Guiding, coaching, training and leading members of the team in furtherance of an organization's strategies, goals, objectives, work plans and work products and services; and demonstrated experience performing substantive activities related to foreign assistance, trade policy, commercial development, finance, banking or other activities that provide exposure to a range of the factors that are considered in identifying and planning development assistance activities that promote sustainable growth and trade in emerging countries; and conducting research and providing project support services, such as preparing grant agreements, scopes of work for contracts, studies, feasibility studies, or other grant activities related to foreign assistance programs, and briefing books; and experience conducting and providing research on international trade, technical and economic trends; and experience implementing foreign assistance programs, trade policy, commercial development, finance, banking, or other activities that contribute to the development of infrastructure initiatives or other similar initiatives requiring capital investment; and developing and maintaining business relationships with U.S. and foreign private sector representatives and government officials in the development of major infrastructure projects.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected