Position Title
Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) Director (MWR &CYP)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
KB-25-12803575 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 18, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
1. This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to accept a position requiring a financial disclosure statement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) Director position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have five or more years of experience with organizing and administering a comprehensive quality of life (QOL) and/or quality of service (QOS) program for a military organization?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you possess experience in financial resource management, procurement policies and procedures; and financial analysis and budget planning?
 A. I possess extensive experience in all areas of financial resource management within Navy NAF.
 B. I possess experience in some areas of financial resource management within Department of Defense (DoD).
 C. I possess experience in financial resource management, obtained from a non-DoD Federal agency or from a private sector.
 D. I possess no experience as described above.
3. How many years of experience do you possess with formulating strategic policies and procedures to administer personnel readiness, community support functions, mission sustaining and quality of life programs?
 A. I possess three (3) or more years of experience as described above within the Department of Navy.
 B. I possess three (3) or more years of experience as described above within DoD Installation(s).
 C. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience as described above within Navy Fleet and Family Readiness (FFR).
 D. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience as described above within DoD Installation(s).
 E. I possess less than one (1) year of experience as described above within Navy FFR or DoD Installations.
 F. I possess no experience as described above.
4. How many years of experience do you possess with the development and execution of short and long-range planning pertaining to programming and budget execution?
 A. I possess more than five (5) years of experience as described above.
 B. I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of experience as described above.
 C. I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 D. I possess less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 E. I possess no experience as described above.
5. Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience evaluating and improving program effectiveness.


 A. Led one or more project team(s) engaged in analyzing policies and programs. I planned and facilitated team efforts and ensured that established goals and priorities were accomplished.
 B. Led one or more team(s) engaged in policy and program implementation for which new approaches were used. I ensured that team members had knowledge of the effects of relevant laws and regulations on implementation and engagement strategies.
 C. Designed and conducted one or more projects to assess and recommend changes and improvements to an organizational or public program. My recommendations included changes to program goals, timetables, and priorities.
 D. Managed an on-going program for which legal, regulatory, or policy requirements were changing or being considered. I analyzed and interpreted potentially new and revised requirements to assess their impact on project goals and objectives and adjusted priorities for one or more programs teams under my direction.
 E. None of the above.
6. Please indicate your level of experience in supervising and managing teams, including your years of experience in a managerial role and the size of the team you have managed. This includes exercising full authority to accomplish designated missions.
 A. I possess ten (10) or more years of supervisory/managerial experience, where I managed more than 150 employees.
 B. I possess ten (10) or more years of supervisory/managerial experience, where I managed less than 150 employees.
 C. I possess between five (5) and ten (10) years of supervisory/managerial experience, where I managed more than 150 employees.
 D. I possess between five (5) and ten (10) years of supervisory/managerial experience, where I managed less than 150 employees.
 E. I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of supervisory/managerial experience, where I managed more than 150 employees.
 F. I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of supervisory/managerial experience, where I managed less than 150 employees.
 G. I possess less than three (3) years of supervisory/managerial experience, where I managed less than 75 employees.
 H. I possess no supervisory/managerial experience as indicated above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected