Position Title
Intelligence Research Specialist
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12776555-FDSID-DE-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 4, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current DHS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Do you wish to be considered under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) because you are a current or former Federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.704

For more information about ICTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a current DHS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606.
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
2. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
4. I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Have you completed one or more of the following formal, accredited United States Government Intelligence Community training programs for All-Source Intelligence, Signals Intelligence (SIGINT), Human Intelligence (HUMINT), Geospatial intelligence (GEOINT), Imagery intelligence (IMINT), or Measurement and Signature Intelligence (MASINT)? Your resume must specify the title of the course completed and the related intelligence discipline. You must provide documentation (such as a certificate, transcript, or DD-214) to validate your response. Failure to provide this information will result in an ineligible rating. 

A list of U.S. Intelligence Community organizations can be found at: https://www.dni.gov/index.php/what-we-do/members-of-the-ic
 A. Yes
 B. No
2.

Identify the title of the training course and intelligence source.

Intelligence source:

All-Source Intelligence, 
Signals Intelligence (SIGINT), 
Human Intelligence (HUMINT), 
Geospatial intelligence (GEOINT), 
Imagery intelligence (IMINT), or 
Measurement and Signature Intelligence (MASINT))
3. GS-12 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
5. GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
6. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
7. Which statement best describes your experience in intelligence collection?
 A. I have applied several techniques in the intelligence collection management process.
 B. I have directed teams or groups in the intelligence collection management process.
 C. I have performed refined research in the intelligence collection management process
 D. I have fostered the use of research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions in the intelligence collection management process.
 E. I have led mission specific teams in the intelligence collection management process.
 F. I do not meet any of the options provided.
8. Which statement best describes your best level of experience using classified and unclassified information systems to conduct research relevant intelligence processes?
 A. I have led others in conducting research relevant to intelligence information.
 B. I have utilized sophisticated techniques to extract intelligence information from several sources.
 C. I have worked with internal stakeholders in conducting research relevant to intelligence information.
 D. I have regularly created research platforms derived from a variety of both internal and external sources to collect intelligence information.
 E. I have often analyzed and evaluated intelligence information from a variety of both internal and external sources to be used by a team in creating intelligence patterns.
 F. I do not meet any of the options provided.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. Have you resolved data discrepancies by analyzing information in case files and databases?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Do you have experience extracting relevant information from larger data sets to respond to requests for information?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have experience translating raw data into reports that informed decisions made at the organization level?
 A. Assisted others compiling raw data into a usable format
 B. Translated raw data into reports for use by management within my division
 C. Translated raw data into reports for distribution outside of my division
 D. Translated raw data into reports to advise management decisions
 E. None of the above
12. Choose the option that best describes your experience producing finished intelligence assessment covering functionally or geographically organized intelligence topics.
 A. I have created analytic products based on functionally or geographically organized intelligence topics that assist others in drawing conclusive trends at a high rate of success.
 B. I have applied basic analysis and evaluation methods based on functionally or geographically organized intelligence topics to intelligence data from sources such a raw intelligence reports, organizational databases, and available open source information.
 C. I have evaluated intelligence data from sources such as raw intelligence reports, organizational databases, and available open source information using specific analysis procedures for mission specific requirements based on functionally or geographically organized intelligence topics.
 D. I have evaluated sensitive intelligence data from sources such as raw intelligence reports, organizational databases, and available open sources information for precedent setting policy creation.
 E. I have extracted specific information relevant to functionally or geographically organized intelligence topics from intelligence data from sources such as raw intelligence reports, organizational databases, and available open sources information in order to ascertain complex patterns.
 F. I do not meet any of the options provided.
13. What level of experience best describes your ability to oversee the drafting of briefings, reports, and options papers on immigration policies?
 A. I have led a team or supervised employees who draft briefings and other reports on immigration policies.
 B. I have served as a subject matter expert, that is, a person with bona fide expert knowledge about humanitarian immigration policy, who has drafted options papers, briefings, “one-pagers,” or reports on immigration policies for my supervisor’s review and approval.|
 C. I do not have any professional experience in drafting options papers, briefings, “one-pagers,” or reports on immigration policies.
 D. I have researched and compiled immigration information (e.g., data, statutes, studies, etc.) for others to use in drafting options papers, briefings, “one-pagers,” or reports on immigration policies.
14. Which statement best describes your experience?
 A. I have assisted in the process of intelligence assessment organization and production
 B. I have processed information to be used in intelligence assessments.
 C. I have developed complete intelligence products for publication.
 D. I have worked in the creation process of intelligence products.
 E. I have developed aspects or sections of intelligence products for publication
 F. I do not meet any of the options provided
15. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interacting with law enforcement entities?
 A. I analyzed law enforcement information received indirectly and incorporated it into decision-making.
 B. I have been a point of contact for law enforcement entities.
 C. I cultivated relationships with law enforcement entities to promote inter-agency collaboration.
 D. I have no experience, training, or education related to interacting with law enforcement entities.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to interacting with law enforcement entities, but do not have professional experience.
16. Indicate your level of experience briefing Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 A. I have applied numerous techniques to provide briefing to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 B. I have performed nuanced research to develop imaginative ways to proffer information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 C. I have cultivated custom presentation techniques in the analysis of information and the briefing Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 D. I have spearheaded mission specific teams in identifying definitive information to be presented to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
17. Which of the following best describe your experience in identifying operational capabilities and effectiveness of foreign intelligence entities and non-state actors?
 A. I have assisted as a team member to identify foreign intelligence entities or non-state actor capabilities and tradecraft.
 B. I have independently processed information used to identify foreign intelligence entitles or non-state actor capabilities and tradecraft
 C. I have limited experience to identify foreign intelligence entitles or non-state actor capabilities and tradecraft
 D. I have developed programs, policy, and performed oversight and management to identify foreign intelligence entities or non-state actor capabilities and tradecraft
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
18. Which option best describes your experience with and knowledge of information sharing procedures within the intelligence and/or law enforcement community?
 A. I am familiar with standard information sharing guidelines (i.e. privacy law, disclosure, and oversight).
 B. I have been directly involved in official information sharing within my own agency.
 C. I have been directly involved in official information sharing with partners external to my home agency.
 D. I have been a member of an official request for information (RFI) program working to process RFIs.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
19. What statement best describes your highest level of experience using data mining tools to identify data trends and/or anomalies?
 A. I made modifications to previously developed reports.
 B. I created data mining tools from raw data elements.
 C. I automated routine reports to be readily available to senior managers and executives.
 D. I completed education and/or training related to data mining tools, but do not have professional experience.
 E. None of the above.
20. Which statement best describes your experience in researching and preparing?
 A. I have assisted others in researching and preparing information as part of an intelligence analysis and production program.
 B. I have processed information to be used in an intelligence analysis and production program.
 C. I have been involved in researching and preparing information as part of an intelligence analysis and production program
 D. I have directed others in researching and preparing information as part of an intelligence analysis and production program
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
21. Indicate your experience level producing raw intelligence reporting in the form of Intelligence Information Reports (IIRs).
 A. I have assisted in the process of producing raw intelligence reporting in the form of Intelligence Information Reports (IIRs).
 B. I have processed information to be used in Intelligence Information Reports (IIRs).
 C. I have developed complete Intelligence Information Reports (IIRs).
 D. I have developed, produced, and disseminated complete Intelligence Information Reports (IIRs)
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
22. Which statement best describes your experience in research and analysis?
 A. I have applied multiple techniques using research and analysis to solve problems or make decision using classified and unclassified information.
 B. I have performed in-depth research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions using classified and unclassified information.
 C. I have fostered the use of research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions using classified and unclassified information.
 D. I have led mission specific teams in the use of research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions using classified and unclassified information.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
23. Which statement best describes your experience conducting trend and predictive analysis?
 A. I have applied several techniques provided projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in the performance of complex national security issues.
 B. I have directed teams or groups providing projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in the performance of complex national security issues.
 C. I have performed refined research providing projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in the performance of complex national security issues.
 D. I have fostered the use of research and analysis to solve problems or make decisions providing projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in the performance of complex national security issues.
 E. I have led mission specific teams providing projections of future trends, predictive interpretation, and estimate analysis in performance of complex national security issues.
 F. I do not meet any of the options provided.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
24. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected