Position Title
Park Ranger
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH250794713015HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employement
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires shift work to provide coverage on evenings, weekends, holidays, or special situations. Are you willing and able to work an assigned shift to meet work requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Park Ranger position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this occupational questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Park Ranger at the GS-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 A. I have at least six months general experience in administrative, professional, technical, investigative, or other responsible work that provided a familiarity with natural or cultural history; fish or wildlife habitat characteristics; techniques of resource protection and use; recreational use of public lands and facilities; enforcement of laws, rules, or regulations; fire prevention techniques and fire suppression methods; or the practice of interpersonal relations skills in dealing with the general public; AND I have a minimum of six months of specialized experience in technical, administrative, or scientific work, fish and wildlife management, recreation management, law enforcement or other park-related work. (Resume must clearly document this experience.)
 B. I have at least two year of education above high school with 12 semester hours of related course work such as - natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. (Transcripts are required at time of application and must clearly document credits earned and related coursework.)
 C. I have some of the experience as described in A, but less than one year; AND I have more than one year but less than two years above the high school level as described in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of education above high school beyond one year by 30. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify) (Resume must clearly document the experience and transcripts must document credits earned and related coursework.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected