Position Title
BUDGET ANALYST
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Transportation Command
Announcement Number
USTC-12759009-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 7, 2025 to Monday, July 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a position with higher graded promotional potential than previously held?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
12
2. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your level of experience. Please read each statement carefully before making your selection. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Creditable specialized experience includes:

 A. (If applying for the GS-09) I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-07) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Qualifying specialized experience would include: performing a variety of budget functions involving the formulation, execution, and/or analysis of budgets for substantive programs and support activities; and knowledge of commonly used budget and/or finance practices, procedures, regulations, precedents, policies, and guides; OR
 B. (If applying for the GS-09) I have two full years of graduate education or a master's degree; OR
 C. (If applying for the GS-09) I have some specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have more than one year but less than two years of education as described in B. You have computed the percentage of the requirements that you meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 D. (If applying for the GS-11) I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-09) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Qualifying specialized experience would include: Assisting with presenting, developing, justifying and executing budgets and financial plans; providing information to assist with financial analysis of budget-related issues; and applying results of financial/budget related analysis to solve problems; OR
 E. (If applying for the GS-11) I have 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. equivalent doctoral degree; OR
 F. (If applying for the GS-11) I have some specialized experience as described in D, but less than one year; and I have more than one year but less than three years of education as described in E. You have computed the percentage of the requirements that you meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 G. (If applying for the GS-12) I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-11) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Qualifying specialized experience would include: Presenting, developing, justifying and executing budgets and financial plans to properly fund and meet resource requirements; providing financial analysis of budget-related issues, to include budget strategies and techniques to meet changing priorities and resource allocations; and applying results of financial/budget related analysis to solve problems and make recommendations.
 H. I do not possess the required experience to qualify for this position.
2. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience monitoring and analyzing budget execution (select all that apply):

 A. Monitors the use and rate of expenditures of budgeted funds.
 B. Conducts research to analyze trends in the use of budgeted funds.
 C. Evaluates the effects of continuing changes in program plans and funding.
 D. Develops recommendations for adjustments to support changes in funding.
 E. Prepares reports covering the status of funds, expenses, and obligations.
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
3. From the following responses, please select the statement that BEST describes your experience with budgetary policies and procedures for organizational compliance with Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE).

 A. I recommend budgetary policies and procedures for organizational compliance with DoD PPBE.
 B. I develop budgetary policies and procedures for organizational compliance with DoD PPBE.
 C. I implement budgetary policies and procedures for organizational compliance with DoD PPBE.
 D. None of the above.
4. I have performed the following duties related to budget execution (select all that apply):

 A. I analyze budgetary relationships to develop recommendations for financial actions under various conditions and time pressures.
 B. I provide certification of funds to comply with appropriations law, fiscal law, and DoD regulations.
 C. I input and extract data from FM systems to perform budget functions.
 D. I analyze applicable fiscal law policy and procedures to ensure compliance with fiscal law during budget execution.
 E. I analyze budgetary relationships to develop recommendations for budgetary actions under various conditions and time pressures.
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
5. I have performed the following duties relating to the budget process (select all that apply):

 A. Commit funds to support organizational objectives.
 B. Ensure commitments are in compliance and funds are used in accordance with appropriation law and higher-level guidance.
 C. Develop line of accounting in accordance with guidance to support financial transactions.
 D. Participate in budget process formulation in support of the budget.
 E. Submit organizational funding requests to support management?s objectives.
 F. Support auditor (internal and external) requirements by providing requested budget documents.
 G. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
6. From the following responses, please select the statement that BEST describes your experience evaluating Congressional legislation that affect budget formulation:

 A. I interpret the impact of new and/or existing Congressional legislation to inform the next cycle of budget formulation.
 B. I assess the impact of new and/or existing Congressional legislation to inform the next cycle of budget formulation.
 C. None of the above.
7. I have performed the following duties relating to budget formulation, justification & presentation (select all that apply):

 A. Provide decision support and analysis to support the budget.
 B. Analyze historical rates, current rates, and cash position in order to establish rates for Defense Working Capital Funds.
 C. Support the development and submission of the POM in order to ensure linkage with the budget.
 D. Analyze the potential effects of budgetary actions on program viability for use in budget justification.
 E. Analyze the potential effects of budgetary actions on attainment of program objectives for use in budget justification.
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
8. From the following responses, please select the statement that BEST describes your experience supporting budget justification.

 A. I prepare impact statements, white papers, etc. to support budget justification.
 B. I review impact statements, white papers, etc. to support budget justification.
 C. I integrate impact statements, white papers, etc. to support budget justification.
 D. None of the above.
9. This position requires knowledge of fiscal laws, policies, instructions, and regulations relating to working capital, revolving, and appropriated funds. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience applying and utilizing this knowledge (select all that apply):

 A. Providing financial management, program analysis, collaboration, or integration of funding requirements.
 B. Compiling, consolidating, interpreting, or summarizing financial data and documentation to support program budgets and funding requirements.
 C. Developing policies and procedures for implementing, to optimize capability investments and equal allocation of resources.
 D. Working across an organization to coordinate the Planning, Programming, Budget, and Execution (PPBE) System with corporate governance to reach decisions to accomplish mission requirements.
 E. Providing advice on budget matters such as type of funding available and use of funds.
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
10. I have interpreted and assessed the effect of budget policy/guidance on the organization and its financial management programs.

 A. Yes, and it is clearly reflected in my resume.
 B. No, I do not have this experience.
11. I have provided accurate and timely guidance and advice on financial concepts and finance-related matters.

 A. Yes, and it is clearly reflected in my resume.
 B. No, I do not have this experience.
12. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience serving as the point of contact on the use of budget automated data management systems (select all that apply):

 A. Generates computer reports to facilitate effective analyses of budget information, such as costs, benefits, and trade-offs in obligation and expenditures of budget dollars.
 B. Uses available computer software programs and products to accomplish budgeting assignments and produce required budget reports, plans, and schedules.
 C. Maintains awareness of overall system status, notifies supervisor of technical difficulties found with system applications, and coordinates as necessary to resolve problems.
 D. Processes journal vouchers, and other nonstandard financial system transactions for the financial management branch.
 E. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
13. From the following responses, please select the statement that BEST describes your experience with financial analysis to support management decisions.

 A. I implement financial policies and procedures for financial analysis to support management decisions.
 B. I recommend financial policies and procedures for financial analysis to support management decisions.
 C. I develop financial policies and procedures for financial analysis to support management decisions.
 D. None of the above.
14. This position requires the ability to gather financial data in order to make recommendations. From the following responses, please select the statements that best describe your experience making recommendations for financial management decisions (select all that apply):

 A. Develop appropriate recommendations to accommodate actions under conditions of changing deadlines.
 B. Recommend or make frequent adjustments to budget estimates.
 C. Discern trends in spending and determine needs for future funding.
 D. Provide advice and guidance to program managers regarding the effective use of funds.
 E. Recommend adjustments to spending based on changing budget requirements.
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
15. I have performed the following duties to support business decisions and inform decisions-makers (select all that apply):

 A. Monitor trends for financial management metrics to inform stakeholders and decision makers.
 B. Compile funding data to support business decisions analyses.
 C. Arrange funding data to support business decisions analyses.
 D. Consolidate funding data to support business decisions analyses.
 E. Track end of year close-outs to optimize available funding.
 F. Reconcile funding data to verify accuracy and precision.
 G. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
16. I have presented briefings regarding budgetary analysis, which contained analytical and technical findings.

 A. Yes, and it is clearly reflected in my resume.
 B. No, I do not have this experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
17. I research and analyze information related to the federal budget process to support budget formulation and execution.

 A. Yes
 B. No
18. From the following responses, please select the statement that BEST describes your experience applying technical knowledge in order to conduct budget analysis:

 A. I independently conduct budget analysis, completing thorough reviews, based on current non-DoD regulations, principles, or policies to ensure funds are being spent in accordance with annual work plans and schedules.
 B. I provide administrative or technical support for other staff members, compiling the data needed to accurately present current budgetary expenditures and obligations.
 C. I independently conduct budget analysis, completing thorough reviews, based on current DoD regulations, principles, or policies to ensure funds are being spent in accordance with annual work plans and schedules.
 D. I have assisted in the analysis of budgetary data utilizing current regulations, principles, or policies with my work being reviewed by other staff.
 E. None of the above.
19. From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving budget problems (select all that apply).

 A. Resolved problems under close supervision.
 B. Resolved problems independently.
 C. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences.
 D. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives.
 E. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identify budgetary issues and offer multiple options for resolution.
 F. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents.
 G. Served on teams that are assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives.
 H. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
20. From the following responses, please select the statements that describe your experience providing solutions to identified problems (select all that apply):

 A. I identified and recommended solutions to routine problems, utilizing existing guidelines or procedures.
 B. I identified material weakness deficiencies related to financial statement auditing and worked to establish material weakness Corrective Action Plans (CAPs).
 C. I executed change based on CAPs, implementing required corrective actions.
 D. I resolved a variety of complex problems where no clear precedent exists.
 E. I developed solutions for solving specialized problems not covered by existing guidelines and procedures.
 F. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only response).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected