Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist- Blood Bank
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12801207-26-SGP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 15, 2025 to Thursday, October 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Please select the most appropriate response(s) regarding meeting the basic requirement for the GS-644 Clinical Laboratory Scientist series. IMPORTANT: Transcripts REQUIRED - You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application if you are using your education to qualify. Education cannot be credited without documentation.


Basic Requirements: To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Education. A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.

Do you possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?

 Yes
 No


2.
Certification. Do you possess the appropriate certification as a MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT OR MT given by the ASCP-BOR or AMT?

Exception for Non-Certified.
(a)Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification may be hired by VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of the routes identified in Appendix A that makes them eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency.(b)Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2).
(c)Non-Certified individuals may only provide care under the supervision of a certified CLS at or above the FPL.(d)Non-certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
(e)Temporary appointments of non-certified CLS may not be extended beyond 2 years or be converted to a new temporary appointment.

 I possess the Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 I possess the Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
 I meet the exception above
 I do meet the certification requirement in either A, B, or C above.


Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


3.
GS-7 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Experience Requirement- Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

None beyond the basic requirements.

 Yes, I have the basic requirements
 No, I do not have the basic requirements


4.
GS-9 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Experience Requirement-Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-7).
OR
Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
 I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-7).
 I have Master?s degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
 I have neither the experience or education listed above.


5.
GS-11 Supervisory Clinical Laboratory Scientist Experience Requirement-Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-9).
OR
Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
 I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-9).
 I have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
 I have neither the experience or education listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙