Position Title
Agricultural Program Specialist (DETAIL/TEMP PROMOTION NTE 1 YEAR)
Agency
Farm Service Agency
Announcement Number
FSA-25-12796230-MP-DAFP-SJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current Farm Service Agency employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Farm Service Agency employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Agricultural Program Specialist GS-1145 position with Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency (FSA). Please respond to the following questions. Mark only one response for each question. Any experience claimed in response to the following questions MUST be supported by information in your application (resume or any other written format). This information must be SPECIFIC (i.e., duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments). Failure to provide this supporting documentation may result in receipt of a lower or ineligible rating. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience.)
1. Please select what best reflects your education and/or experience in meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements for the GS-1145 series. Please read all responses prior to making your selection, then select the answer that accurately reflects your qualifications:
 A. I have Undergraduate Education in a major of study that included economics, agricultural economics, marketing, business administration, animal or poultry science/husbandry, agronomy, soil science, or related curricula dealing with the production and distribution of farm products OR Graduate Education in a Major study that included dairy science, agricultural marketing, domestic agricultural development, farm management, agronomy, or other agricultural specialty areas.
 B. I possess a experience that demonstrated: (1) Knowledge of the laws and regulations governing agricultural stabilization and conservation programs and of the particular application of national policies and objectives at the State level; (2) Understanding of farming practices and customs in the United States, and of the economic needs of farm communities at the State level; (3) Knowledge of current State and Federal agricultural trends; and (4) Ability to establish and maintain effective relationships with representatives of public and private organizations, farmers' associations, and others, and to interpret regulations, programs, and policies affecting them. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Agricultural extension work as a subject-matter specialist, county agent, or assistant or associate county agent; Teacher of vocational agriculture; District director, State program specialist, or county office employee performing duties in the operational phases of farm programs such as production adjustment, price support, and conservation; Experience at the county, district, or State government levels in the operational phases of farm programs of the type carried out through such agencies as the Soil Conservation Service, Farmers Home Administration, or related programs.
 C. None of the above.
2. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes the highest level of experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-13, Agricultural Program Specialist work. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience).
 A. I possess at least one full-time year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level grade level which demonstrates expert knowledge and experience developing, reviewing, assessing, administering and coordinating agricultural farm programs. This includes: (1) Developing farm records maintenance policies, program plans, procedures and/or software requirements; (2) Providing guidance on farm program policy and procedures to field offices and other Agencies; (3) Interpreting laws and regulations governing farm programs to serve as an adviser on the application of national policies and objectives at the State and/or county level.
 B. I do not possess the required experience to qualify for this position.
3. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes the extent to which you have had full and independent responsibility for overall program planning and implementation of farm records maintenance.
 A. I have developed and implemented policies, program plans, procedures and/or software requirements related to farm records maintenance on a nationwide basis.
 B. I have developed and implemented policies, program plans, procedures and/or software requirements related to farm records maintenance on a state or district basis.
 C. I have developed and implemented policies, program plans, procedures and/or software requirements related to farm records maintenance on a county basis.
 D. None of the above.
4. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to provide expert and authoritative verbal policy and procedural interpretations to field offices and other agencies.
 A. I have provided training, direction and assistance to other agencies and state and county offices with respect to complex policies and issues regarding farm programs.
 B. I have participated in or conducted meetings with other agencies and interagency groups to provide technical guidance and information on assigned farm programs and processes.
 C. I have assisted with training, direction and assistance to state and or county offices with respect to complex policies and issues regarding farm programs.
 D. I have developed recommendations for adjustments in farm program policies and procedures as needed.
 E. None of the above.
5. From the descriptions below, choose the one response that best describes your skill and understanding of the mission and function of the Farm Service Agency (FSA) and the delivery of farm program services and benefits.
 A. I have developed and recommended operating policies, procedure and regulations in support of the mission and function of FSA for determining producer and participant compliance with performance provisions of farm and commodity programs at a national level.
 B. I have developed and recommended operating policies, procedure or regulations in support of the mission and function of FSA for determining producer and participant compliance with performance provisions of farm and commodity programs at a state level.
 C. I have developed and recommended operating policies, procedure or regulations in support of the mission and function of FSA for determining producer and participant compliance with performance provisions of farm and commodity programs at a county level.
 D. None of the above.
6. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to review and evaluate program activities in the field, prepare appropriate reports, and develop recommendations to correct deficiencies or improve operations.
 A. I have developed or directed the development of tools (spreadsheets, access databases, scripts, geodatabases) to monitor, track and evaluate program implementation and integrity, and provided direction and assistance to state and/or county offices with respect to assigned operations and procedures.
 B. I have used tools (spreadsheets, access databases, scripts, geodatabases) to monitor, track and evaluate program implementation and integrity, and provided direction and assistance to state and county offices with respect to assigned operations and procedures.
 C. I have assisted program specialists or managers and other units with maintaining assigned processes.
 D. I have coordinated with others to address efficiencies and improve operations.
 E. None of the above.
7. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to provide oversight and direction of farm program operations.
 A. I have led national implementation of assigned program(s),reviewed and evaluated assigned program(s), policy and processes and appraised effectiveness of those processes to ensure attainment of program objectives.
 B. I have led the state or district implementation of assigned programs, reviewed and evaluated assigned program(s), policy, and processes and appraised effectiveness of those processes to ensure attainment of program objectives.
 C. I have led the county implementation of assigned programs, reviewed and evaluated assigned program(s), policy, and processes and appraised effectiveness of those processes to ensure attainment of program objectives.
 D. I have assisted in reviewing policy and making recommendations for farm programs.
 E. None of the above.
8. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to understand and appropriately apply principles, procedures, requirements, regulations, and policies related to farm programs.
 A. I have worked closely with the State FSA offices in the administration of varied, complex, significant, and sensitive programs related to production stabilization, price support, compliance, conservation, environmental, and/or emergency assistance programs.
 B. I have acted as a spokesperson on those matters relating to farm programs, policies, and operations.
 C. I have served as a member of various Task Forces established by DAFP.
 D. I have ensured the application of sound administrative practices in carrying out administration and management functions such as budget, fiscal reporting and claims, procurement, property and supply, space management, and statistical services.
 E. None of the above.
9. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to explain processes related to agricultural programs.
 A. I have provided direction and assistance to state and county offices with respect to assigned operations and procedures.
 B. I have participated in or conducted meetings and served as liaison with Agency and inter-agency groups to provide technical guidance and information on assigned processes.
 C. I have conducted training sessions on agricultural programs, policies, and/or software applications.
 D. I have obtained information on process effectiveness and cooperation in carrying out assigned activities.
 E. None of the above.
10. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience in communicating in writing with the agricultural and farming communities and others.
 A. I have written and prepared documents and/or reports relating to farm programs in support of decision making; prepared directives to offices for program implementation and have drafted correspondence to stakeholders.
 B. I have written and prepared for distribution documents explaining the details of new processes, trends, procedure or regulations.
 C. I have prepared reports, policies, procedure and briefings of a technical nature for supervisory review.
 D. I have developed correspondence to inquire about or respond to inquiries about new or revised policies.
 E. None of the above.
11. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to express facts and ideas in a clear, concise, convincing, and organized manner for the intended audience.
 A. I have prepared business requirements, correspondence and/or other communications when presenting the views of the Administrator to Agency managers and program officials.
 B. I have written complex technical reports using clear terminology and a concise format for use by high-level decision makers.
 C. I have reviewed technical reports, edited materials, and provided suggestions to improve clarity while ensuring documents are targeted to the intended audience.
 D. I have developed documents outlining agency mission and goals for use by the local community.
 E. None of the above.
12. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best demonstrates your commitment to customer service.
 A. I have developed proactive processes or direction to prevent future issues or problems for the customer.
 B. I have gone beyond what the customer requests and do something extra to be helpful (i.e., proactively sharing information).
 C. I have corrected customer problems promptly without becoming defensive.
 D. I have been accessible and returned e-mails and phone calls within 24 hours.
 E. None of the above.
13. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to design and implement strategies that maximize employee potential and foster high ethical standards in meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals.
 A. I have confronted issues that block achievement of goals and mission.
 B. I have exhibited negotiations skills required to achieve cooperation and resolve conflicts in a work group.
 C. I have taken steps to prevent situations that could result in unpleasant confrontations.
 D. I have effectively involved team members in building consensus.
 E. None of the above.
14. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best demonstrates your ability to identify and keep up-to-date on key agency policies/priorities and economic, political, and social trends which affect the organization; understand where the organization is headed and how to contribute.
 A. I have kept fully abreast of the general agricultural conditions, practices, trends, and related public attitudes and interests within the organization and recommended automation changes to meet current and specific needs related to the organization's current agricultural and economic conditions as affected by FSA programs.
 B. I have developed automated programs taking into account multiple, diverse views and needs of other agencies or external organizations.
 C. I have provided policy advice to officials on subjects impacting local and national policies and trends.
 D. I have considered the impact of a shift in programmatic direction to meet the needs of local and national customers.
 E. None of the above.
15. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding "no" to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected