Position Title
Nurse Practitioner - Hospice/Palliative Care
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12744720-25-YAS Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 1, 2025 to Wednesday, July 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS- The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, licensure, certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.
1. Education. You must possess a post-master's certificate or master's or doctoral degree as a Nurse Practitioner. (NOTE: the post-master's certificate is formal education awarded from an acceptable school of professional nursing and is not considered board certification).  The Nursing education must be from a school of professional nursing accredited by one of the following accrediting organizations at the time the program was completed: (1) The Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN)- NOTE: The National League for Nursing Accrediting Commission/NLNAC changed its name to ACEN in May 2013 -or- (2) The Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE), an accrediting arm of the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN). 

In cases of graduates of foreign schools of professional nursing programs, the nurse practitioner degree equivalency must be validated through an Agency recognized degree equivalency evaluation agency, such as the International Consultants of Delaware (ICD). Applicants with equivalent Nurse Practitioner masters or doctorate level degrees who possess current, full, active and unrestricted registration and certification will meet the requirement of graduation from an approved school of professional nursing to warrant appointment.

Please identify the type of nursing school program that you earned your post-master's certificate, master's degree or doctoral degree from:
 A. I am a graduate from a professional school of nursing as a Nurse Practitioner with a post master’s certificate. My education is approved by the ACEN/NLNAC or the CCNE. I have provided a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 B. I am a graduate from a professional school of nursing as a Nurse Practitioner with a master’s or doctoral degree. My education is approved by the ACEN/NLNAC or the CCNE. I have provided a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 C. I am a graduate of a foreign school of professional nursing as a Nurse Practitioner with a master’s or doctoral degree and I possess a current, full, active and unrestricted NP registration and certification. I have provided a copy of my transcripts, registration and certification with my application.
 D. I do not possess either of the education requirements listed above.
2. Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your nurse education. Name of Academic Institution, City and State, the Level of Education (post-master's certificate, master's, MSN, doctoral, etc.), and the Month and Year conferred.
3. License. You must possess and maintain an active, current, full and unrestricted APN license to practice as a NP in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. You must provide a copy of your license with your application.

Exception: Applicants who otherwise meet the basic requirements, but do not possess the required licensure, may be appointed, pending licensure, as a Graduate Nurse Technician Nurse Practitioner (GNT-NP) on a temporary appointment up to one year and a day.

Do you possess an active, current, full, and unrestricted NP license as listed above?
 A. Yes. I have provided a copy of my NP license with this application.
 B. No, however, I meet the exception listed above as a GNT-NP.
 C. No. I don’t possess the required NP license, nor am not in the process of obtaining it.
4. Provide the following information regarding your NP license: Name of the license issuing state or territory, the complete license number, and the expiration date of your license.
5. Board Certification. You must possess and maintain full and current board certification as a NP in an area of clinical specialty from one of the following: (1) The American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC); or (2) The American Academy of Nurse Practitioners Certification Board (AANPCB); or (3) Other nationally recognized certifying body in the area in which the Nurse Practitioner is academically prepared. The basic certification as a NP must be identified in support of any position being established or filled as a NP, must be identified and approved as a condition of employment and must be a qualifying factor for the specific assignment of this position.

For this position, you must have a NP board certification in Family, Adult, Gerontological, and Adult Gerontology Primary Care to qualify.

Exception: Applicants who otherwise meet the basic requirements, but do not possess the required board certification, may be appointed, pending certification, as a Graduate Nurse Technician Nurse Practitioner (GNT-NP) on a temporary appointment up to one year and a day.

Do you possess a full and current board certification as a Nurse Practitioner (NP) in at least one of the specialty area(s) listed above?
 A. Yes. I have provided a copy of my NP board certification with this application.
 B. No, however, I meet the exception listed above as a GNT-NP.
 C. No. I have a NP board certification, but it is not in one of the specialty area(s) listed above.
 D. No. I don’t possess a NP board certification, nor am not in the process of obtaining it.
6. Provide the following information regarding your NP board certification: Name of the certification certifying body, specialty and expiration date.
7. English Language Proficiency. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless you are proficient in basic written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 A. Yes.
 B. No.
RESUME/CV REMINDER - Your resume/CV must include the following information for each job/position listed: Job title; Occupational Series and Grade (if a Federal position); Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); and Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
DOCUMENT REMINDER- Failure to submit a complete application packet could cause you to be made ineligible. Remember to submit a SF-50 (if you are a current VA/Federal employee), copy of all educational transcriptions, proof of completed training, copy of NP license, copy of NP board certification(s) and anything else required by the vacancy announcement to show that you qualify for this position. Failure to submit your most recent SF-50, licenses/certifications, transcript(s), etc. may make you ineligible for this position (even facility employees). To obtain your SF-50s, VA employees may access your eOPF (electronic Official Personnel Folder) by going to: https://eopf.opm.gov/va/. All other Federal employees must contact your serving HR Office for assistance assessing your eOPF. It is the responsibility of the applicant to submit the appropriate documentation to prove your eligibility and/or qualifications. See the vacancy announcement for specific details on what you need to submit. Please contact Human Resources should you have questions or need assistance with these documents.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected