Position Title
Fitness Specialist - Group Instructor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12772005 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 28, 2025 to Thursday, August 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to work an Flexible work schedule. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty; hours are from 0-40 hours per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in working for the Fitness Center in Navy Region Northwest. Please answer the following questions as they best relate to your professional experience. All transcripts, diplomas, and/or certifications must be included in the application to ensure applicants meet the minimum qualifications of this position. Failure to include those will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Please select all of the current certifications you currently possess. Copies of your certifications must be included in your application in order to be considered for this position.
 A. Fitness Instructor, Personal Trainer or Certification from NCCA accredited health/fitness organization.
 B. Primary certification from an accredited health/fitness organization.
 C. Certification in the specific physical activity program in which they instruct (e.g. yoga, cardio dance programs) from a commercial/industry health/fitness organization.
 D. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you currently possess your high school diploma/GED equivalent? Copies of transcript/diploma must be uploaded in order to be considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. What is your level of experience with the safe use, operation and maintenance of fitness equipment?
 A. No experience.
 B. Basic knowledge, but limited hands-on experience.
 C. Regularly used and maintain equipment.
 D. Extensive experience in equipment operation, maintenance, and training others.
4. What is your experience in providing fitness training and programming to individuals and groups?
 A. No experience.
 B. Some experience working with small groups or individuals.
 C. Regularly lead fitness programs for various group sizes.
 D. Extensive experience developing and leading customized training programs for diverse groups.
5. How would you rate your ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing?
 A. Limited communication experience.
 B. Comfortable with basic communication but need improvement.
 C. Strong verbal and written communication skills.
 D. Excellent communicator with experience in professional writing and public speaking.
6. What is your experience level with Microsoft Office Programs (e.g. Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook)?
 A. No experience with the above.
 B. 1-2 years of experience with the above.
 C. 3-4 years of experience with the above.
 D. 5+ years of experience with the above..
7. A primary certification with elements of group fitness from one of the following accepted accredited health or fitness organizations is required for this position. This may include group fitness relating, but not limited to, yoga, barre, cycling, aquatics, etc. Please select the agency where your certification is obtained from. Copies of your certification must be included in your application in order to be considered for this position. 
--Select-- 
--Select--
AAPTE - Academy of Applied Personal Training Education
ACE - American Council on Exercise
ACSM - American College of Sports Medicine
ACTION Certification
AFAA – Athletics and Fitness Association
CI - The Cooper Institute for Aerobics Research
CSCCa - Collegiate Strength and Conditioning Coaches association
IFPA - International Fitness Professionals Association
ISFTA - International Sports & Fitness Trainers Association
NASM - National Academy of Sports Medicine
NAYS - National Alliance for Youth Sports
NCHEC - National Commission for Health Education Credentialing, Inc.
NCSF - National Council on Strength and Fitness
NESTA - National Exercise and Sports Trainers Association
NETA - National Exercise Trainers Association
NFPT - National Federation of Professional Trainers
NSCA - National Strength and Conditioning Association
PTA Global, Inc.
TWCC - Training & Wellness Certification Commission
I have a certification from a health or fitness organization, but it is not listed.
I do not have a certification from a health or fitness organization.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected