Position Title
Recreation Assistant/ Lifeguard
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
JAX-25-12796610 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to work a Varying work schedule. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty 0-40 hours per week including days, nights, weekends and holidays.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am able to work in indoor and outdoor aquatic facilities where indoor facilities are subjected to high humidity.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am able to maintain the physical ability involving frequent lifting or pulling of pool equipment, cleaning supplies, and program participants as well as endure extended hours of sitting and standing.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current NAS Jacksonville NAF MWR Aquatics employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Select the response applicable to you.
 A. I have six (6) months or more of general experience AND six (6) months or more of specialized experience. General experience is any type of work that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work of the position, or experience that provided a familiarity with the subject matter or processes of the broad subject area of the occupation. Specialized experience includes performing aid or assistance in the organization and administration of recreation activities, such as preparing activities calendars, maintaining attendance records, and providing information concerning schedules and activities.
 B. I have successful completion of two (2) years of study that included at least 12 semester hours in courses related to recreation (e.g., basic psychology, group dynamics, physical education, arts and crafts, etc.). If claiming education in lieu of experience transcripts must be included.
 C. I have an equivalent combination of education and/or experience as described above.
 D. I have none of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2.
Are you currently certified as a Lifeguard with a Nationally recognized certification? (Certification MUST be uploaded.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Do you currently have or are you able to obtain and maintain the following certifications within 90 days of hire?
CPR and First Aid Certification 
Automated External Defibrillator Certification
(Certification MUST be uploaded.)
 A. Yes, I currently possess all certifications required.
 B. Yes, I currently possess at least one of the listed certifications and am willing to obtain the remaining.
 C. No, I do not currently possess any of the listed certifications, however I am willing to obtain all required.
 D. No, I do not currently possess any of the listed certifications nor am I willing to obtain with the specified time.
4. How many years of experience do you possess performing the duties of a lifeguard?
 A. I have more than two (2) years of experience in this area.
 B. I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience in this area.
 C. I have less than one (1) year of experience in this area.
 D. I do not have experience in this area.
5.
Which of the following duties have you performed as a Lifeguard in a working or volunteer capacity. Answers MUST be supported by resume (Check all that apply.)
 A. Use and Maintain Pool Equipment
 B. Take Pool pH Readings
 C. Control, Measure and Administer Pool Chemicals
 D. Enforce Safety Regulations
 E. Successfully Recover Swimmers in a state of Panic
 F. Successfully Recover Unconscious Swimmers
 G. Administer CPR and First Aid
 H. Operate Water Pumps
 I. Complete Routine Pool Maintenance
 J. Check IDs/Confirm Pool Use Eligibility
 K. Disinfect Pool and Shower Areas
 L. File and Complete Incident Reports
 M. Report Safety Violations
 N. Supervise Swimmers
 O. Perform Rescue Work
 P. Schedule Events
 Q. Supervise Youth Activities
 R. Demonstrating Activities
 S. Instructing Classes
 T. I have not performed any of the duties listed above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected