Position Title
Legal Assistant (OA)
Agency
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Announcement Number
OPM-OPLA-12794002-DHA-JDM Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?
If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Eloy, AZ
 C. Florence, AZ
 D. Phoenix, AZ
 E. Tucson, AZ
 F. Adelanto, CA
 G. Concord, CA
 H. El Centro, CA
 I. Los Angeles, CA
 J. Otay, CA
 K. Sacramento, CA
 L. San Diego, CA
 M. San Francisco, CA
 N. Santa Ana, CA
 O. Van Nuys, CA
 P. Centennial, CO
 Q. Denver, CO
 R. Hartford, CT
 S. District of Columbia, DC
 T. Fort Lauderdale, FL
 U. Fort Myers, FL
 V. Jacksonville, FL
 W. Miami, FL
 X. Orlando, FL
 Y. Pompano Beach, FL
 Z. Tampa, FL
 AA. Atlanta, GA
 AB. Lumpkin, GA
 AC. Honolulu, HI
 AD. Boise, ID
 AE. Chicago, IL
 AF. Indianapolis, IN
 AG. Des Moines, IA
 AH. Louisville, KY
 AI. Baton Rouge, LA
 AJ. Jena, LA
 AK. New Orleans, LA
 AL. Oakdale, LA
 AM. Baltimore, MD
 AN. Hyattsville, MD
 AO. Boston, MA
 AP. Chelmsford, MA
 AQ. Detroit, MI
 AR. Grand Rapids, MI
 AS. Minneapolis, MN
 AT. Saint Paul, MN
 AU. Kansas City, MO
 AV. Saint Louis, MO
 AW. Omaha, NE
 AX. Las Vegas, NV
 AY. Elizabeth, NJ
 AZ. Newark, NJ
 BA. Chaparral, NM
 BB. Batavia, NY
 BC. Brooklyn, NY
 BD. Buffalo, NY
 BE. Nassau County, NY
 BF. New York, NY
 BG. Newburgh, NY
 BH. Suffolk County, NY
 BI. Charlotte, NC
 BJ. Raleigh, NC
 BK. Brooklyn Heights, OH
 BL. Cleveland, OH
 BM. Columbus, OH
 BN. Oklahoma City, OK
 BO. Portland, OR
 BP. Philadelphia, PA
 BQ. Pittsburgh, PA
 BR. York, PA
 BS. San Juan, PR
 BT. Charleston, SC
 BU. Columbia, SC
 BV. Memphis, TN
 BW. Nashville, TN
 BX. Conroe, TX
 BY. Dallas, TX
 BZ. Dilley, TX
 CA. El Paso, TX
 CB. Harlingen, TX
 CC. Houston, TX
 CD. Irving, TX
 CE. Laredo, TX
 CF. Los Fresnos, TX
 CG. Pearsall, TX
 CH. San Antonio, TX
 CI. Salt Lake City, UT
 CJ. Annandale, VA
 CK. Richmond, VA
 CL. Sterling, VA
 CM. Seattle, WA
 CN. Spokane, WA
 CO. Tacoma, WA
 CP. Milwaukee, WI
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
5
6
7
3. In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do any of your family members work for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement?

(A family member means an individual with any of the following relationships to the applicant: (1) Spouse, and parents thereof; (2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof; (3) Parents, and spouses thereof; (4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof; (5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof; (6) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in (2) through (5) of this definition; and (7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If the answer to the question above is yes, please provide the relative(s)' name, relationship, and the ICE office or organization for which your relative(s) works (if known).If the answer to the question above is no, please indicate 'not applicable'. (limit 1,000 characters) (limit 1,000 characters)
6. I acknowledge that I am solely responsible for the answers and documentation submitted in my online application. I understand that my answers cannot be altered once I have submitted my application and the announcement has closed. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information contained in my online application for Federal Employment is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that a false or fraudulent answer to any question or item on any part of my online application may be grounds for not hiring me, or for firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment or both (See section 1001 of title 18, United States Code).

By clicking "Yes" below, I certify that I accept responsibility for the responses and documentation submitted in my online application and that the information I have provided is true to the best of my knowledge.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. From the descriptions below, please select the response best describing your experience and/or education.
 A. I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 grade level or equivalent performing duties such as: reviewing documents with legal implications for accuracy and completeness (e.g., court documents, real estate documents, contracts, insurance, or benefits claims, mortgage or loan applications, tax forms, or other types of legal documents); preparing files and other materials for shipping; maintaining file systems; and obtaining needed information from files or general reference sources.
 B. I have successfully completed a full four year course of study above the high school level in any field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite.
 C. I have successfully completed a combination of post-high school education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e. beyond the second year) and specialized experience as described in A, that when combined, equals 100% of the total requirement.
 D. I do not meet the qualification criteria described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05 grade level performing duties such as: assisting with the management of calendars and tickler systems; monitoring schedules and tracking upcoming appointments and important deadlines; assisting with tracking and assigning court dockets or other scheduling systems; preparing inactive files and related material for shipping; and tracking mail distribution and timelines to ensure time sensitive information is delivered as scheduled?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-06 level performing duties such as: maintaining docket calendars and tickler systems; managing, tracking, and assigning court dockets; updating databases and gathering pertinent data in response to status inquiries and/or requests for information; shipping inactive files and time sensitive materials according to schedule; and reviewing incoming files and distributing information to requesting individuals?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you type at least 40 words per minute based on a five-minute sample with three or fewer errors?
 A. Yes (By selecting this option, you are self-certifying your typing proficiency.)
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected