Position Title
SUPERVISORY IT PROGRAM MANAGER
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
PDS-25-BOY-12778126 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 8, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.

1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
- you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
- you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
- your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND,
- your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. YES
 B. NO
Time-In-Grade: This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-15. For the GS-15 grade level, you must have completed at least 52 weeks at the next lower grade, GS-14. Please select the one response that supports the grade level TIG requirements you meet. (Please review all options before selecting a response)
2. Select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 A. I have one year of time-in-grade at the GS-14 grade level.
 B. The time-in-grade requirement does not apply to me (I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks)
 C. I am a current federal employee, but I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement as specified above.
Basic Requirement: Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements for a Supervisory IT Program Manager, GS-2210-15. For this position, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled.

- Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
- Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
- Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
- Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.

NOTE: The basic requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection.
3. Do you possess the Basic Requirements as described above?
 A. YES, I have the experience described above and it is clearly demonstrated within my resume.
 B. NO, my experience is not described above.
Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level. Specialized experience for this position is defined leading or managing major complex multi-year health care IT software development programs with program budgets greater than $100 Million, demonstrating success utilizing Agile principles, including extensive acquisition/contracting experience.
4. Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 in Federal service, as described above.
 B. I do not meet the above requirements.
Assessment 2
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
1. What activities are involved in overseeing the development of detailed program/project plans and ensuring the proper sequencing of events, work efforts, and resources to accomplish objectives?
 A. Coordinating with IT Project Managers and stakeholders to identify required milestone dates.
 B. Developing program/project budgets and approving expenditures
 C. Conducting team-building exercises and employee morale activities.
 D. Supervising daily operations of IT support staff.
2. What responsibilities does one have when overseeing the selection and proper employment of tools and methods to track progress throughout the life cycle of a project?
 A. Selecting appropriate project management software and tools
 B. Ensuring the accuracy and timeliness of progress tracking methods.
 C. Coordinating with team members to ensure proper usage of tools.
 D. All of the above.
3. What duties are involved in the monitoring and evaluation of major VA IT investments and initiatives, particularly when advising senior management?
 A. Planning IT project timelines and milestones.
 B. Developing strategies for IT project budgeting and acquisition.
 C. Executing and managing IT projects and programs effectively.
 D. Providing technical support to end-users.
4. Experience in leading and overseeing budget, staffing, and contracting.
 A. Successfully administered an annual budget, oversaw procurement processes, and ensured funds were effectively allocated to high-priority areas.
 B. Administered a budget, overseen procurement activities, and prioritized spending using cost-benefit analysis to ensure efficient resource allocation.
 C. Led a team in managing the program budget, made strategic staffing decisions, and negotiated contracts to optimize financial efficiency.
 D. Managed a budget, drafted and reviewed contracts.
5. What is the role of managing and facilitating stakeholder meetings in the context of developing plans?
 A. Ensuring clear communication and alignment among stakeholders.
 B. Identifying and resolving potential issues or conflicts.
 C. Gathering input and feedback to inform plan development.
 D. Documenting technical specifications for the project.
6. What activities are associated with eliciting customer support in the development of acquisitions, scope, and finalizing programs/project schedules while reducing product risk?
 A. Gathering requirements and expectations from customers.
 B. Collaborating with customers to define the project scope.
 C. Working with customers to finalize the project schedule.
 D. Improving customer satisfaction through regular updates.
7. What responsibilities are involved in evaluating the performance of direct subordinates and providing necessary support and recommendations?
 A. Providing counseling, advice, and instruction on technical and administrative matters.
 B. Recommending awards, within-grade increases, and promotions based on performance.
 C. Suggesting developmental assignments or adverse actions based on performance.
 D. Evaluating and documenting the performance of direct subordinates.
8. What are the key responsibilities involved in managing employee performance and appraisals?
 A. Developing, modifying, and interpreting performance standards.
 B. Organizing team-building activities to improve morale.
 C. Explaining performance expectations and providing regular feedback.
 D. Preparing and conducting mid-point and year-end appraisals.
9. What responsibilities are involved in resolving issues with contractor deliverables, schedules, and technical assessments?
 A. Reviewing and ensuring the quality of contractor deliverables.
 B. Addressing any delays or discrepancies in project schedules.
 C. Performing technical assessments to identify and resolve issues.
 D. Communicating regularly with contractors to ensure alignment.
10. How would you handle a situation where team members are very passionate and there is a conflict during a major incident?
 A. Ignore the conflict and focus on the technical issues.
 B. Address the conflict by facilitating open communication and finding a mutually acceptable solution.
 C. Take sides and support one group over the other.
 D. Postpone addressing the conflict until after the incident is resolved.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected