Position Title
Powerplant Operator
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-MB-25-DE-12765143-SL Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, July 18, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior with CTAP eligibility?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

To claim ICTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify ICTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than The Department of the Interior?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this vacancy?
 A. American Society of Professional Estimators (ASPE)
 B. Association for Advancement of Cost Engineering International (AACEI)
 C. Engineering News-Record (ENR)
 D. Asianlife.com
 E. Diversenote.com
 F. NativeAmericanJobs.com
 G. WorkplaceDiversity.com
 H. Department of Veterans Affairs/Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
 I. Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR)
 J. National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
 K. Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)
 L. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)
 M. Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCU)
 N. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
 O. Referral from a Professor or Academic Advisor
 P. Referral from a College/University Career Placement Office
 Q. Referral from a non-listed Professional Organization
 R. Job/Career Fair
 S. Referral from a friend or family member
 T. Reclamation Employee
 U. Reclamation Internet Site
 V. Referral from a State or Local government
 W. Referral from another Federal Agency/employee
 X. USAJOBS.gov Search
 Y. Other Internet Site
 Z. Other
3. Provide specific information about your response to the previous question (i.e. professor's name and place of employment; college or university name; job/career fair and location held; friend's name; etc.). (limit 100 characters)
You are applying under the Delegated Examining announcement. If you want to be considered under the concurrent Merit Promotion announcement, you must submit a separate application under that announcement. Please call the Human Resources Office phone number listed on this announcement for clarification or further information.
Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.
1. If selected, you are required to obtain and successfully pass a pre-employment physical examination by a licensed physician certifying to your ability to perform the duties of the position. This is not required if a comparable examination was required for placement in your current position and was completed within the last year; however, verifiable documentation of a comparable physical is required. Periodic (annual or biennial) physical examinations are required to be successfully passed for continued employment. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical as described above as part of your employment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. You must maintain a valid State Driver's License at all times as the position requires operation of government vehicles on government and public roads. Do you currently have, or can you acquire prior to entrance on duty, a valid Driver's License and the ability to operate a government vehicle?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Moderate Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated Public Trust Suitability Background Investigation (T2S or T2RS or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Powerplant Operator position with Bureau of Reclamation. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the response that describes your level of experience, education or training in hydroelectric or general powerplant operating equipment associated with dams and hydroelectric powerplant equipment, auxiliary equipment, and related control or protective equipment (i.e., generators, switchyard and transmission systems, and hydraulic equipment).

 A. I have not performed these job functions.
 B. I have received post high school education or formal training (apprenticeship) in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 C. I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions.
 D. I have performed these functions at a large stationary power generating plant as a regular part of jobs that I have held.
 E. I am highly skilled at the journeyman level in performing these functions at a large hydroelectric generating plant. I have performed them independently and routinely and have carried them out successfully.
2. Select the one response that represents the apprenticeship or technical degree program you have completed in a trade or craft directly related to the position to be filled.
 A. I have completed a formal apprenticeship program (approximately 8,000 hours) recognized by the Department of Labor. The program was comprised of systematic on the job training supplemented with classroom instruction and correspondence courses at progressively increased levels of both practical and theoretical complexity.
 B. I have completed a technical degree program from an accredited college or vocational technical school (two year program or 60 credit units minimum) in a trade or craft that included courses on theoretical principles and practical workshop experience.
 C. I have completed an employer or military sponsored technical training program comprised of progressively increased levels of on-the job training, formal classroom or correspondence coursework and I have applied these skills in the positions I have held.
 D. I have participated in a formal apprenticeship or technical training program but have yet to complete it.
 E. I have completed a formal apprenticeship program or a technical training program but in a trade or craft not related to the position being filled.
 F. None of the above
3. Select the one response that describes the highest type of powerplant facility you have operated within the last three years.

 A. 10 MW or larger hydroelectric generating plant
 B. 350 MW or larger stationary power generating plant
 C. 150 MW - 350 MW stationary power generating plant
 D. 10 MW - 150 MW stationary power generating plant
 E. None of the above
4. Select the powerplant equipment you have operated or used in a professional (commercial or industrial) work environment (Select all that apply):

 A. Powerplant recorders and gauges
 B. Communications equipment, including radio and telephone procedures
 C. Alarm systems
 D. Generators
 E. Exciters
 F. Voltage regulators
 G. Power circuit breakers
 H. Power transformers
 I. Pumps
 J. Compressors
 K. Electric motors
 L. Auxiliary electrical and/or mechanical equipment
 M. Governors
 N. Load and frequency controllers
 O. Unit start-stop- local manual
 P. Unit start-stop- local automatic
 Q. Unit start stop- remote automatic
 R. Unit and line relaying
 S. Motor-generator sets
 T. Emergency diesel generators
 U. Manual generator synchronizers
 V. Manual switching (Dead Bus and Cross-Tie) of electrical distribution
 W. Sync-check switching (Dead Bus and Cross-Tie) of electrical distribution
 X. None of the above
5. Select the one response that describes your experience, education, or training relative to powerplant emergency/abnormal conditions and the use of emergency/abnormal procedures.

 A. I have directed emergency/abnormal response actions during actual emergency/abnormal conditions.
 B. I have directed or conducted training for emergency/abnormal response actions during simulated emergency/abnormal conditions.
 C. I have performed emergency/abnormal response actions during actual emergency/abnormal conditions as directed.
 D. I have performed emergency/abnormal response actions during simulated emergency/abnormal conditions.
 E. I have been trained in the use of emergency/abnormal response procedures.
 F. I have no experience with powerplant emergency/abnormal response actions.
6. Select the one response that describes your level of experience, education or training in interpreting and utilizing operating instructions, equipment manuals, piping diagrams, wiring diagrams, safe clearance (lock out/tag out) procedures, blueprints (electrical and mechanical), etc.

 A. I have not performed these job functions.
 B. I have received post high school education or formal training in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 C. I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions.
 D. I have performed these functions independently as a regular part of operating an industrial facility.
 E. I am highly skilled at performing these functions. I have performed them independently and routinely and have carried them out successfully.
7. Select the response that describes your highest level of experience, education, or training in reading and interpreting drawings to operate equipment associated with a powerplant facility.

 A. I have not performed these job functions.
 B. I have received post high school education or formal training in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 C. I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions.
 D. I have performed these functions independently as a regular part of operating an industrial facility.
 E. I am highly skilled at performing these functions. I have performed them independently and routinely and have carried them out successfully.
8. Select the one response that describes your highest level of experience, education or training in reading and interpreting manufacturer's instructions or other technical manuals to operate equipment associated with a powerplant facility.

 A. I have not performed these job functions.
 B. I have received post high school education or formal training in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 C. I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions.
 D. I have performed these functions independently as a regular part of operating an industrial facility.
 E. I am highly skilled at performing these functions, I have performed them independently and routinely and have carried them out successfully.
9. Select the one response that best describes your highest level of experience with safe clearance (lockout/tagout) procedures.

 A. I have accepted/held clearances in a hydroelectric powerplant (greater than 1MW capacity) or large pumping plant (greater than 200 CFS capacity) and verified the clearance boundary.
 B. I have received clearances in a large powerplant (greater than 5MW capacity) following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 C. I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 D. I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility and have followed safety procedures.
 E. I have no experience with safe clearance procedures.
10. I have used and/or reviewed the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation Facilities or industry equivalent, Instructions, Standards, and Techniques (F.I.S.T), Volume 1-1 (Hazard Energy Control Program) Manual.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. I have used OSHA 29 CFR 1910.147 and/or .269 based hazardous energy control procedures.

 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Select the one response that describes your experience utilizing safety operating documentation, procedures, rules, guidance, and standards to determine methods to resolve conflicting or unclear requirements.

 A. I have not performed this task and I have not had education or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had training or education above high school in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job at some point in my career.
 D. I currently perform this task on the job, and it has been a regular and recurring duty for at least 12 consecutive months.
 E. I currently perform this task on the job, it has been a regular and recurring duty for at least 12 consecutive months, and I have provided advice or input to other operators.
13. Have you worked in confined spaces as a regular and recurring part of your job?

 A. Yes
 B. No
14. From the following list, select all of the safety standards, guidelines, or procedures that you have received education or training AND have used in an industrial environment (Select all that apply):

 A. Job Hazard Analysis (JHA)
 B. Hazardous Energy Control Program (Lockout/Tagout)
 C. Switchman and Authorized Personnel Certification
 D. Basic Electricity in the Workplace
 E. Hearing Conservation
 F. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
 G. Respiratory Protection
 H. Confined Space
 I. Hazardous Communications and Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS)
 J. Spill Prevention
 K. Fire Extinguishers
 L. Emergency Response Planning
 M. Personal Fall Protection
 N. Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)
 O. Electrical Safety, including National Electric Code
 P. Hazardous Waste
 Q. Asbestos Awareness
 R. Workplace Safety and Health Inspections
 S. Construction Safety
 T. National Fire Protection Administration Standards (NFPA)
 U. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standards
 V. Defensive Driving and/or Off-Road Driving
 W. Hazard Identification
 X. None of the above
15. Select the one response that describes your level of formal team training.

 A. I have completed formal training on teamwork within the last year.
 B. I have completed formal training on teamwork within the last 3 years.
 C. I have completed formal training on teamwork within the last 5 years.
 D. I have not completed any formal training on teamwork.
16. Select the responses that best describe your roles and experience participating in a work team or project team (Select all that apply):

 A. Technical Member
 B. Technical Expert
 C. Facilitator
 D. Team Leader
 E. Project Manager
 F. Supervisor of team and team project, responsible for budget, deadlines, decisions, goals, assigning duties and holding team members accountable
 G. Manager using team results or data
 H. Administrative assistance
 I. None of the above
17. Select the types of records and written procedures you have used and maintained (Select all that apply):

 A. Power generation (MWH or KWH) produced
 B. Power consumed (MWH or KWH)
 C. Water flow and storage
 D. Equipment/generator outages
 E. Station logs
 F. Clearance procedures (lock out/tag out)
 G. Checklists
 H. Equipment/generator reading sheets
 I. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)
 J. Operating Orders
 K. Switching orders
 L. Generator service records
 M. Transmission line outage records
 N. None of the above
18. Select the software programs/systems in which you are proficient and have used as a regular part of your job (Select all that apply):

 A. Word-processing software (e.g. Microsoft Word, Word Perfect)
 B. Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) / Distributed Control System (DCS)
 C. Hydromet
 D. Spreadsheet software (e.g. Microsoft Excel, Lotus)
 E. None of the above
19. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected