Position Title
Fall 2025 Volunteer Intern (Staffing)
Agency
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts
Announcement Number
25-DAS-12759851 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 9, 2025 to Wednesday, August 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in an internship position with the federal government. Applicants must have demonstrated experience as listed below. This requirement is according to the AO Classification, Compensation, and Recruitment Systems which include interpretive guidance and reference to the OPM Operating Manual for Qualification Standards for General Schedule Positions. WHEN MANDATORY NARRATIVE RESPONSES ARE REQUIRED, PLEASE DO NOT DUPLICATE INFORMATION YOU HAVE ALREADY PROVIDED IN YOUR RESUME AS A RESPONSE TO THIS QUESTION. WE ARE SEEKING AN ELABORATION OF THOSE DUTIES AND SKILLS YOU HAVE MENTIONED WHICH ADDRESS THE QUESTION MORE FULLY. THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND ON YOUR EXPERIENCE AND/OR EDUCATION AS IT RELATES TO THE QUESTION. FAILURE TO DO THIS WILL RESULT IN YOUR BEING CONSIDERED AS INELIGIBLE.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. All internships at the AO are on-site at the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building (TMFJB) and telework is not permitted during the period of this internship. Are you available to work in the Washington, DC region during the duration outlined for this internship?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This internship program opportunity requires completion of one full year of post-secondary education by the closing date of this announcement. A full year of post-secondary education is defined as 30 semester or 45 quarter hours. Please choose the level that best describes your education below:
 A. I have a high school diploma/equivalent (GED).
 B. I have successfully completed 1 year of education beyond the high school level.
 C. I have successfully completed at least 2 years of education beyond the high school level.
 D. I have successfully completed 3 years of study leading to a bachelor's degree.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. All students in the AO Internship Program must be enrolled or accepted for enrollment as degree-seeking students, taking at least a half-time academic course load in an accredited four-year or graduate-level program.

Are you currently enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a degree-seeking student in an undergraduate or graduate program, AND will you continue to be enrolled as a degree-seeking student in the next semester? (You are required to upload a copy of your transcript as proof of eligibility during this application process.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. In the space provided below, please tell us what school you are currently attending. (Please write the full name of the university - for example, Howard University and not Howard U.)

5. In the space provided below, please tell us your anticipated graduation date. (As an example, please write using the following structure: Spring 2025, Winter 2026, etc.)

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. All students in the AO Internship Program must be in good academic standing, maintaining a GPA of 3.0 or higher. Do you currently have a GPA of 3.0 or higher? (You are required to upload a copy of your transcript as proof of eligibility during this application process.)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you have a working knowledge of computer applications such as Microsoft 365, and other data management applications?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Please submit a narrative statement in the space provided below addressing your working knowledge of computer applications such as Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Access, and other data management applications (i.e. describe some of the things you can do and skills you possess). THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your responses to 500 characters or less

9. Please submit a narrative statement describing, from your perspective, why this internship program is important to you. THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your responses to 500 characters or less.

10. How did you hear about this job announcement?

 A. USAJobs
 B. Handshake
 C. LinkedIn
 D. Career fairs
 E. Other
11. If other was selected, please tell us how you heard about this job announcement.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
12. I understand that failure to provide a written statement ("See Resume" or other non-descriptive response is not sufficient), for each essay question could result in non-consideration for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected