Position Title
Third Assistant Engineer Diesel
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-12819753-DHA-S Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 21, 2025 to Tuesday, October 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Third Assistant Engineer Diesel with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of routine maintenance repair of all engine room equipment. I can assist with inspections of engineer spaces and equipment including the dredge pumps, bow thruster, steering gear and areas. I have experience with routine maintenance repair of all engine room equipment. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some maintenance functions of the diesel-powered seagoing hopper dredge. I have a good understanding of operating the dredge pumps, bow thruster, steering gear and areas of the engine room. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform common routine repairs or assisting the Chief Engineer and other senior engineers with the major repairs
 I have the ability to perform simple basic maintenance of the diesel-powered seagoing hopper dredge engine room. I received training of the basic functions of the dredge pumps, bow thruster, steering gear and areas and my work is normally inspected and supervised by a work leader or journey-level employee.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙