Position Title
Auditor - Open Continuous
Agency
Defense Contract Audit Agency
Announcement Number
DCAA-25-LM-12771917 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 to Tuesday, September 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a current member of the Armed Forces? If yes, confirm that you are married to the military member.

-OR-

Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?

-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current, permanent Career or Career-Conditional DoD employee in the competitive service AND your highest permanent grade is LOWER than the highest grade of this position? (SF-50 block 24 must be a "1" or "2")
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current, permanent Career or Career-Conditional DoD employee in the competitive service AND your highest permanent grade is the SAME or HIGHER than the highest grade of the position being filled OR I have held a permanent developmental position with promotion potential to the same grade of the position being filled? (SF-50 block 24 must be a "1" or "2")
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a veteran who is currently a Department of Defense (DoD) employee on a permanent Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA)? (SF-50 block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2")
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy,
Your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy, and
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 
NOTE 1:  If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 
NOTE 2:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 
NOTE 1:  If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 
NOTE 2:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 
NOTE 1:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 
NOTE 2:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal appropriated or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 
NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 
NOTE 2:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans' preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Mobile, AL
 B. Chandler, AZ
 C. Mesa, AZ
 D. Tucson, AZ
 E. San Diego, CA
 F. Littleton, CO
 G. Lone Tree, CO
 H. Westminster, CO
 I. East Hartford, CT
 J. Groton, CT
 K. Stratford, CT
 L. Windsor Locks, CT
 M. Melbourne, FL
 N. Orlando, FL
 O. Marietta, GA
 P. Smyrna, GA
 Q. Bath, ME
 R. Greenbelt, MD
 S. Linthicum Heights, MD
 T. Rockville, MD
 U. Lowell, MA
 V. Tewksbury, MA
 W. Livonia, MI
 X. Sterling Heights, MI
 Y. Pascagoula, MS
 Z. Nashua, NH
 AA. Cherry Hill, NJ
 AB. Moorestown, NJ
 AC. Cincinnati, OH
 AD. Fairborn, OH
 AE. King of Prussia, PA
 AF. York, PA
 AG. Portsmouth, RI
 AH. Greenville, SC
 AI. Fort Worth, TX
 AJ. Grand Prairie, TX
 AK. Houston, TX
 AL. McKinney, TX
 AM. Corinne, UT
 AN. Salt Lake City, UT
 AO. Falls Church, VA
 AP. Hampton, VA
 AQ. McLean, VA
 AR. Newport News, VA
 AS. Reston, VA
 AT. Springfield, VA
 AU. Renton, WA
 AV. Tukwila, WA
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
11
3. Are you a retired Federal employee receiving an annuity from the Office of Personnel Management? NOTE: If you answered yes to this question, attach a copy of your retirement Standard Form 50 to your application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former (within last five-years) Executive Branch political appointee; Schedule C excepted service appointee (confidential, policy or transitional role), or non-career or limited appointee in the Senior Executive Service (SES)?

Agencies must request OPM approval to appoint the following current or former (within five-years) Executive Branch political appointees to permanent competitive service, non-political excepted service, or career SES positions:
https://www.opm.gov/FAQs/QA.aspx?fid=023f2059-dff7-4307-89b4-c553c218af1d&pid=08248d29-d26e-44b6-9988-57655358d509
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 A. No, I have not been a federal employee in the GS during the last 52 weeks OR I do not know my highest grade or equivalent.
 B. Yes, I have held a position at, above or equivalent to the GS-07 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks (or will meet the TIG requirement within 30 days of the closing date of the announcement).
 C. One or more of the eligibilities I am applying through is a special appointing authority for which time-in-grade is not applicable. Examples: new VRA appointment, Military Spouse, EO 12721, 30% or more disabled veteran, person with disability applying under the Schedule A authority, Family Member Preference for Overseas Employment, Peace Corps, VISTA,VEOA, etc. (SPECIAL NOTE: Current Federal employees applying under the VEOA must meet TIG.)
 D. None of the above apply to me.
6. There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-05 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 A. No, I have not been a federal employee in the GS during the last 52 weeks OR I do not know my highest grade or equivalent.
 B. Yes, I have held a position at, above or equivalent to the GS-05 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks (or will meet the TIG requirement within 30 days of the closing date of the announcement).
 C. One or more of the eligibilities I am applying through is a special appointing authority for which time-in-grade is not applicable. Examples: new VRA appointment, Military Spouse, EO 12721, 30% or more disabled veteran, person with disability applying under the Schedule A authority, Family Member Preference for Overseas Employment, Peace Corps, VISTA,VEOA, etc. (SPECIAL NOTE: Current Federal employees applying under the VEOA must meet TIG.)
 D. None of the above apply to me.
7. There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-09 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 A. No, I have not been a federal employee in the GS during the last 52 weeks OR I do not know my highest grade or equivalent.
 B. Yes, I have held a position at, above or equivalent to the GS-09 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks (or will meet the TIG requirement within 30 days of the closing date of the announcement).
 C. One or more of the eligibilities I am applying through is a special appointing authority for which time-in-grade is not applicable. Examples: new VRA appointment, Military Spouse, EO 12721, 30% or more disabled veteran, person with disability applying under the Schedule A authority, Family Member Preference for Overseas Employment, Peace Corps, VISTA,VEOA, etc. (SPECIAL NOTE: Current Federal employees applying under the VEOA must meet TIG.)
 D. None of the above apply to me.
8. To be eligible for Military Spouse Preference (MSP) under this vacancy announcement, you must have appointment eligibility under one of the following authorities and submit the appropriate, required documentation to verify your eligibility. Please select one or more eligibilities that apply to you.
 A. I am a current Federal career or career-conditional employee. Click here for more information: https://www.dfas.mil/careers/howtoapply/vacancyannouncement/appointment-eligibility.html#CFPFE
 B. I am currently serving under a VRA Appointment. Please provide your most recent SF-50.
 C. I am currently serving under a Schedule A appointment for the disabled. Click here for more information: https://www.dfas.mil/careers/howtoapply/vacancyannouncement/appointment-eligibility.html#IWD
 D. I have reinstatement eligibility. Click here for more information: https://www.dfas.mil/careers/howtoapply/vacancyannouncement/appointment-eligibility.html#CFPFE
 E. I have Military Spouse appointment eligibility. Click here for more information: https://www.fedshirevets.gov/job-seekers/special-hiring-authorities/family-members/
 F. I am eligible for Noncompetitive appointment of Certain Former Overseas Employees. Click here for more information: https://www.dfas.mil/careers/howtoapply/vacancyannouncement/appointment-eligibility.html#MSFME
 G. I have competitive service eligibility based on employment under other merit systems as prescribed by an applicable OPM interchange agreement. Click here for more information: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems
 H. I do not claim Military Spouse Preference.
9. To exercise your PPP application based preference as a Military Reserve and National Guard Technician, Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Receiving Disability Retirement, or Retained Grade Preference Eligible under this vacancy announcement, you must have appointment eligibility under one of the following authorities and submit the appropriate, required documentation to verify your eligibility. Please select one or more eligibilities that apply to you.
 A. I am a current Federal career or career-conditional employee. Click here for more information: https://www.dfas.mil/careers/howtoapply/vacancyannouncement/appointment-eligibility.html#CFPFE
 B. I am currently serving under a VRA Appointment. Please provide your most recent SF-50.
 C. I am currently serving under a Schedule A appointment for the disabled. Click here for more information: https://www.dfas.mil/careers/howtoapply/vacancyannouncement/appointment-eligibility.html#IWD
 D. I have reinstatement eligibility. Click here for more information: https://www.dfas.mil/careers/howtoapply/vacancyannouncement/appointment-eligibility.html#CFPFE
 E. I have Military Spouse appointment eligibility. Click here for more information: https://www.fedshirevets.gov/job-seekers/special-hiring-authorities/family-members/
 F. I am eligible for Noncompetitive appointment of Certain Former Overseas Employees. Click here for more information: https://www.dfas.mil/careers/howtoapply/vacancyannouncement/appointment-eligibility.html#MSFME
 G. I have competitive service eligibility based on employment under other merit systems as prescribed by an applicable OPM interchange agreement. Click here for more information: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems
 H. I do not claim Priority Placement Program Preference.
Assessment 1
Please accurately identify your level of training or experience when completing this questionnaire. Your responses will be evaluated and verified based on your submitted resume. Ensure that your resume accurately describes the level of education and/or experience claimed in the assessment questionnaire. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. By continuing in the application process, I acknowledge that my self-assessment questionnaire score may be reduced and I may lose consideration for this position if the work experience described in my resume does not support my responses to the assessment questionnaire. 
1. To qualify for this position you must meet one of the basic requirements described below. (You MUST submit copies of your proof of education unless you meet one of the exceptions as described in the vacancy announcement; failure to submit required documents by the close of the announcement may result in an Ineligible rating.)
 A. I have a bachelor's or higher degree in accounting.
 B. I have 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing, which can include up to 6 hours of business law, AND I have a bachelor's or higher degree in a field related I have 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing, which can include up to 6 hours of business law, AND I have a bachelor's or higher degree in a field related to accounting such as business administration, finance, or public administration.
 C. I have 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing, which can include up to 6 hours of business law, AND I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting/auditing.
 D. I have a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or Certified Internal Auditor AND I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting/auditing.
 E. have 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing, which can include up to 6 hours of business law, AND I have a combination equivalent to 4 years of accounting/auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting/auditing knowledge.
 F. I have a certificate as Certified Public Accountant or Certified Internal Auditor AND I have a combination equivalent to 4 years of accounting/auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting/auditing knowledge.
 G. I do not meet the basic requirements in A, B, C, D, E or F above.
2. In addition to meeting the Basic Education Requirement, you must also meet the specialized experience requirement to qualify at the GS-7 grade level. Review all of the statements below. Then select one statement that best describes your experience and/or education as it relates to the additional qualification requirements for GS-7 Auditor position. Please read all of the statements carefully and completely before making your selection. Select only ONE statement.
 A. I have at least one year of professional accounting, auditing, or related experience comparable to the GS-5 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is working as a trainee accountant or auditor performing relatively simple audit steps and tasks such as examining routine financial documents, preparing simple summaries and schedules, and organizing work paper files.
 B. I have successfully completed a Bachelor's or higher Degree in an accredited college or university in accounting or auditing or in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting (you may substitute up to 6 hours of the accounting semester hours with up to 6 hours of business law) AND my undergraduate study meets one of the following superior academic achievement provisions: * Ranked in the upper 1/3 of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision; or Earned election to a national scholastic honor society; or * Earned a grade point average (GPA) of 2 point 95 or higher on a 4 point scale based on all completed undergraduate courses, or all undergraduate courses completed during my final 2 years; or * Earned a GPA of 3 point or higher on a 4 point scale based on all completed undergraduate courses in my major, or all undergraduate courses in my major completed during my final 2 years.
 C. I have completed at least one full academic year of graduate education in an accredited college or university in either accounting or auditing or in a directly related field such as business administration, finance/banking, or public administration that provided the knowledge, skill, and ability to do the work of an accountant or auditor. One academic year of graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that your graduate school has determined to represent one academic year of full-time study. Such study may have been performed on a full-time or part-time basis. If you cannot obtain your graduate school&apos;s definition of one year of graduate study, 18 semester hours (or 27 quarter hours) should be considered as satisfying the requirement for one year of full-time graduate study.
 D. I have a combination of graduate level education as described in B above and specialized experience as described in C above which can be combined to equal one year. To compute this, first determine your total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required under letter C above. (For example, 6 months of professional experience equals 50% of the experience requirement.) Then, determine your graduate education as a percentage of the education required under B above. (For example, 9 semester hours of creditable graduate work equals 50% of the education required.) Add the two percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 E. I do not possess the education and/or experience in the amounts specified in any of the above statements.
3. In addition to meeting the Basic Education Requirement, you must also meet the specialized experience requirement to qualify at the GS-9 grade level. Review all of the statements below. Then select one statement that best describes your experience and/or education as it relates to the additional qualification requirements for GS-9 Auditor position. Please read all of the statements carefully and completely before making your selection. Select only ONE statement.
 A. I have one year of professional auditing experience comparable to the GS-7 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is performing audit steps and tasks of limited difficulty and complexity such as conducting evaluations, examinations, or other fact-finding studies and preparing draft audit reports using a practical application of auditing standards, procedures, and technology.
 B. I have a master's degree or have completed two full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or higher in accounting, auditing, or directly related field such as business administration or finance which provided me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to satisfactorily perform GS-9 Auditor work.
 C. I have a combination of graduate level education as described in B above in excess of the first year and specialized experience as described in A above which can be combined to meet the one year requirement. To compute this, first determine your total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required under A above. (For example, 6 months of professional experience equals 50% of the experience requirement.) Then, determine your graduate education as a percentage of the education required under B above. Only graduate level education beyond the first full academic year can be used in this calculation. (For example, 27 semester hours of creditable graduate work equals 50% of the education required.) Add the two percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 D. I do not possess the education and/or experience in the amounts specified in any of the above statements.
4. In addition to meeting the Basic Education Requirement, you must also meet the specialized experience requirement to qualify at the GS-11 grade level. Review all of the statements below. Then select one statement that best describes your experience and/or education as it relates to the additional qualification requirements for GS-11 Auditor position. Please read all of the statements carefully and completely before making your selection. Select only ONE statement.
 A. I have one year of professional auditing experience comparable to the GS-9 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is performing audit assignments using conventional methods and techniques such as developing audit risk assessment and preparing audit programs/plans; testing and examining accounting systems and records, cost representations, and internal controls to assure compliance with accounting and auditing principles, standards and regulations; recommending initial audit determinations; preparing audit working papers and substantiating documents; drafting reports, or segments of reports, of audit findings, conclusions and recommendations.
 B. I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, in a field of study that is directly related to the position being filled.
 C. I do not possess the full amounts of experience and education as are described in A and B above. However, I have a percentage of the education and experience which when combined totals 100% of the necessary education and experience to qualify for this position.
 D. I do not possess the education and/or experience in the amounts specified in any of the above statements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.)? Do you understand that the information provided may be investigated? Do you understand that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with your application may be grounds for not hiring you or for firing you after you begin work? Do you also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected