Position Title
Attorney Advisor
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-12808480-25-RP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 2, 2025 to Thursday, October 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Do you possess a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B), Master of Law (LL.M.), or Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree?

 Yes, I possess a LL.B, LL.M., or a J.D. degree.
 No, I do not possess this education.


2.
Provide the month and year in which you obtained your degree and the name of the College or University from which it was conferred/awarded (MM/YYYY Name, e.g. 05/2010 University of Virginia):


3.
Are you an active member of the bar, duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of any state, territory of the U.S., or the District of Columbia?
 Yes, I am an active member of the bar duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of a U.S. state, territory, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
 No, I am NOT a member of the bar.


4.
Provide the month and year in which your first license was obtained and the State from which it was issued (MM/YYYY ST or 05/2010 MO):


5.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Attorney Advisor GS-13 position.
 Yes, I have two (2) full years (24 months) of post J.D. or LL.B professional legal experience. Qualifying professional legal experience includes: [**NOTE, THE SAME EXPERIENCE LISTED IN THE “REQUIRED EXPERIENCE” SECTION WILL BE LISTED HERE ONCE COMPLETED**] (NOTE: qualifying experience is calculated only after receipt of J.D. or LL.B)
 No, I do NOT have this experience.


6.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Attorney Advisor GS-14 position.
 Yes, I have three (3) full years (36 months) of post J.D. or LL.B professional legal experience. Qualifying professional legal experience includes: [**NOTE, THE SAME EXPERIENCE LISTED IN THE “REQUIRED EXPERIENCE” SECTION WILL BE LISTED HERE ONCE COMPLETED**] (NOTE: qualifying experience is calculated only after receipt of J.D. or LL.B)
 No, I do NOT have this experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙