Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO-IMP-12763018-DLW Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 21, 2025 to Friday, July 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes that includes assisting in implementing, coordinating, and/or overseeing a variety of administrative programs; providing technical assistance and support services to management relating to the application of planning systems and management programs to meet mission requirements; performing a full range of management analysis by established analysis principles, concepts, and practices to a wide variety of problems and analytical assignments; providing technical assistance and support services to management relating to the application of planning systems and management programs to meet mission requirements; providing written and oral reports with conclusions, alternatives and recommendations on national policies, or studies for Customs and Border Protection (CBP).
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
7. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Select the option that best describes your ability to communicate information orally with internal and external stakeholders.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have informally communicated information orally with individuals within my own work group (e.g., email, informal discussions, etc.).
 C. I have formally communicated information orally with individuals within my own work group (e.g., structured meetings, written technical reports, etc.)
 D. I have prepared formal oral presentations for individuals within federal and private sector organizations.
 E. I serve as an authority within my organization, and frequently prepare oral presentations at all levels within my organization as well as to external organizations.
2. Select the option that best describes your ability to communicate information in writing with internal and external stakeholders.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, memoranda, policies/procedures, briefing documents, formal correspondence, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, memoranda, policies/procedures, briefing documents, formal correspondence, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses for review by senior management. I have edited reports, documents, records, or other materials completed by lower-level employees or peers to verify completeness, correctness, and consistency.
3. Select the option which best describes your experience building and maintaining relationships with stakeholders internal and external to your organization.
 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in joint task forces/teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, plan joint task force/team projects, and establish long-term working relationships.
 E. I have represented a program or organization in high level conferences and/or meetings or acted as a liaison to other internal/external organizations or agencies.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience communicating, orally and in writing, with individuals at all levels of Federal and private sector organizations.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have prepared and delivered informal written communications for use within my own work group (e.g., email, informal discussions, etc.).
 C. I have prepared and delivered formal written and oral communications for individuals and teams within my own organization (e.g., technical reports, status updates).
 D. I have prepared and delivered formal written and oral communications for individuals across various levels within my organization (e.g. formal briefings, position papers).
 E. I have prepared and delivered formal written and oral communications that represented my organization to other organizations (e.g. conferences, testimony).
5. Select the option which best describes your experience collaborating with all levels of your organization and individuals from outside organizations.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of my duties.
 C. I have conducted meetings with and provided training for staff members or outside groups.
 D. I have presented briefings on program areas to higher-level managers or internal/external organizations or agencies.
 E. I have represented a program or organization in high level conferences and/or meetings or acted as a liaison to other internal/external organizations or agencies.
6. Select the option that best describes your experience managing project activities.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have completed assigned project activities as a team member.
 C. I have assigned project activities to team members as a team lead, to include arranging for status updates and scheduling team meetings to ensure task completion.
 D. I have managed multiple projects with competing priorities as a team lead. I have assigned activities to team members, tracked completion, conducted team meetings, and provided briefings regarding project status to leadership.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience overseeing the planning, direction, and execution of a program.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in planning, scheduling, and carrying out programs or program segments (including metrics, deliverables, and program management), but have not yet served as a program manager.
 C. I have independently managed several segments of a large program. I was accountable for checking progress against goals and performing the appropriate reporting.
 D. I have held overall responsibility for managing a large program consisting of multiple segments. I was accountable for determining metrics, checking progress, and performing the appropriate reporting.
 E. I have extensive experience overseeing several large programs that were complex, large in scope, and involved multiple organizational entities. I have reviewed the reports of subordinate personnel related to associated program metrics and progress.
8. Indicate the extent of your experience leading projects that cut across organizational/activity lines (for example, cross-functional work teams).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated as a team member on a project cutting across organizational/activity lines, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 C. I have served as a team leader on a project cutting across organizational/activity lines, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 D. I have led several project teams cutting across organizational/activity lines, consisting of members with widely different areas of expertise toward a common goal, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines. I have evaluated individual team member performance and provided feedback.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience in reporting to higher-level officials on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 C. I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to higher-level officials both within and outside my organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 D. I have given formal briefings to higher-level officials in the organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
10. Select the option that best describes your experience developing policies.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed policies and recommended revisions under the direction of a senior employee.
 C. I have evaluated and revised a policy to ensure that program processes were clearly outlined and in compliance with governing regulations.
 D. I have evaluated and revised multiple policies to ensure that program processes were clearly outlined and in compliance with governing regulations. In addition, I have identified the need for new policies, led the development of new policies, and coordinated the review and approval of the policies by senior leadership.
11. Select the option that best describes your experience evaluating the impact of legislation, executive orders, and agency policies.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in evaluating the impact of legislation, executive orders, or agency policies.
 C. I have evaluated the impact of legislation, executive orders, and agency policies and have made recommendations to a supervisor or more senior individual on strategies for managing the impact.
 D. I have trained others to evaluate the impact of legislation, executive orders, and agency policies. I have recommended strategies for managing the impact of such changes that have been successfully implemented in my organization.
12. Select the option that best describes your experience translating goals into action plans.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have participated in a local process/project to develop action items for an action plan that supported established goals for a specific program area.
 C. I have led a local process/project to develop action items for an action plan that supported established goals for a specific program area.
 D. I have led a process/project for the conversion of agency goals to an action plan for a primary organizational unit or equivalent.
 E. I have overseen the process/project for the conversion of agency goals to action plans. I have monitored these action plans, made appropriate adjustments, and measured goal accomplishment.
13. Select the option that best describes your experience developing written impact statements or recommendations on policy issuances.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. Under the close supervision of others, I have written impact statements or recommendations on policy issuances.
 C. I have independently written impact statements or recommendations on policy issuances.
 D. I have extensive experience writing impact statements or recommendations on complex or controversial policy issuances.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience developing and executing changes in policies, methods, or procedures to improve operations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have identified work tasks or methods that could be improved and reported my observations to my immediate supervisor.
 C. I have identified work tasks or operations that could be improved, and I have helped develop new policies or procedures that my work unit or office implemented.
 D. I have identified changes to policies, procedures, or work methods that improved the operational efficiency of a program. My changes resulted in new policies or procedures that have been implemented throughout that program.
 E. I have identified changes to policies, procedures, or work methods at an agency level that improved the operational efficiency of programs in multiple areas of operations. I assisted in the development of the new policies and procedures that were developed and implemented as a result of these changes.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience reviewing programs for conformance with existing policies.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close supervision of others, I have tracked program metrics against policy.
 C. I have reported on policy compliance for program segments for which I was responsible.
 D. I have held overall responsibility for policy compliance for a major program of which I was in charge.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience in responding to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have adapted to minor or temporary changes affecting my own assignments or work schedule by rescheduling work or refocusing my efforts.
 C. I have rearranged some priorities and rescheduled a significant amount of work to accommodate changes in resources or goals. I have recommended new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
 D. I have rearranged virtually all work priorities and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks. I have chosen or developed new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
17. Select the choice which best describes your ability to present information to all levels of employees and management.

 A. I have interacted with others informally in a work setting.
 B. I have notified supervisors, managers, or offices orally of decisions, problems, or further actions needed. In addition, I have informally explained the organization’s programs or services to others.
 C. I have given formal presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings, and acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 D. I have given formal presentations of technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
18. Select the option that best describes your experience monitoring or developing performance measurements to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and/or assist in program administration.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have made recommendations based on my evaluation of performance measurements used to determine the effectiveness of operations and/or program administration.
 C. I have developed performance measurements that were used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and/or assist in program administration, and I have monitored the use of these measurements.
 D. I have overseen the development of performance measurements that were used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and program administration, and I have overseen the evaluation of operations and program administration.
19. Select the option that best describes your experience building support for ideas and initiatives with key stakeholders inside and outside the organization.

 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience in building support for ideas and initiatives with key stakeholders inside and outside the organization.
 C. I have sought support for ideas and initiatives from key internal and external stakeholders with the result that these ideas/initiatives have been included in major recommendations made by others.
 D. I have analyzed the pros and cons of key ideas/initiatives and clearly elucidated these options for key internal and external stakeholders with the result that the ideas/initiatives were successfully implemented.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected