Position Title
ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED SYSTEMS MECHANIC (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12806670-AR-25-221 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sunday, October 19, 2025 to Sunday, November 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (AASF 1) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (AASF 1) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E7 or lower) or Warrant (WO1)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-2610-12 Electronic Integrated Systems Mechanic.
 I HAVE experience or training which 1) demonstrates my knowledge of electronic theories and practices to identify, isolate and repair malfunctions in one or more complex integrated systems, 2) provided a thorough knowledge of principles of digital and analog circuits, electro-mechanical devices, solid state devices, digital techniques, synchro/servo operation and integrated circuit theory, and 3) provided an ability to interpret and trace schematics, logic and wiring diagrams and use a wide variety of test, measurement, and diagnostic equipment (TMDE).
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-2610-12 Electronic Integrated Systems Mechanic.
 I HAVE at least 24 months experience or training 1) in utilizing principles, basic functions and application of theory of electronic integrated systems equipment, 2) in diagnosing problems and determining needed repairs for malfunctions in electronic integrated systems equipment, 3) in making mechanical repairs that required the use of precision measuring and calibrating equipment, 4) in using a wide variety of test, measurement, and diagnostic equipment (TMDE), and 5) which demonstrates my ability to interpret technical manuals, specifications, and publications.
 I DO NOT have at least 18 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙