Position Title
Supervisory Park Ranger (Protection)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SE-1630-BLRI-25-12781937-IM Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 20, 2025 to Wednesday, September 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:

Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career- conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced. 

To verify your eligibility as a current National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation for the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA) eligibility, which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations, for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.
For more information, review Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced.
 
To verify your eligibility as a National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a formal Performance Improvement Plan (PIP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
Merit Hiring Plan Short Eassay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
You will be evaluated based on how well you meet the qualifications listed in this vacancy announcement. Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g., resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessments required for this position. A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating. Please limit your resume to no more than 2 pages. If more than 2 pages are submitted, only the first 2 pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications. You can only submit one resume; Only the resume submitted under the "Resume" "Document Type" will be used to determine your qualifications and for rating purposes. Only one resume will be used to evaluate your qualifications. In the event you submit more than one resume, only the latest submission will be reviewed.
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Park Ranger (Protection) , GS-0025-11 with the Blue Ridge Parkway. Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. You must select only ONE response for each item. You must document evidence supporting your response in your resume. IMPORTANT NOTE: PLEASE LIMIT YOUR RESUME TO NO MORE THAN 2 PAGES. IF MORE THAN 2 PAGES ARE SUBMITTED, ONLY THE FIRST 2 PAGES WILL BE REVIEWED TO DETERMINE YOUR ELIGIBILITY/QUALIFICATIONS.
Minimum Qualification Requirements for the position of Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-11.
1. From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for the Supervisory Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-11 position. Read all of the responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. Please make sure your resume supports the response that you select. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/GL-09 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Specialized experience includes activities, but are not limited to the following: Serving as a park guide or tour leader; doing law enforcement or investigative work; doing archeological or historical preservation research work; working in forestry, and/or fire management work in a park, recreation or conservation area; or serving as a management, assistant, or program specialist doing work involving the development and implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations; AND 1) Performing senior law enforcement, fire management, search and rescue, and emergency medical services duties for the protection, conservation, use, and management of natural and/or cultural resources in park areas or similar operations, which involved the application of law enforcement and fire management authorities and procedures to protect visitors and resources; 2) Management or program specialist work involving the development and/or implementation of policy related to the law enforcement, fire management and visitor protection in park areas or similar operations; or other similar work. If you are claiming this experience, it must be documented in your resume. To be creditable, this experience must have been equivalent in level of difficulty and responsibility to that of at least the GS/GL-09 grade level in the federal service.
 B. I do not have the one year of specialized experience as described above, but I have successfully completed at least three full years of graduate level study leading to a Doctorate, Ph.D., or equivalent degree at an accredited college or university in directly-related fields such as natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archaeology, anthropology, park and recreation management; law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, or sociology. You must include transcripts.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience as described above. To combine education and experience, first take the number of semester hours or equivalent earned towards a graduate degree, in excess of 36 semester hours, and divide by 18 semester hours or equivalent. Then, take the number of months of experience and divide by 12 months. Add the percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.?You must include transcripts.
 D. I do not meet or exceed the requirements stated above.
FACTOR: Type I Law Enforcement Commission (Screen-out)
2. In addition to the requirements in the questions above, selectees must possess or be able to obtain a Type I Law Enforcement Commission by the closing date of this announcement, which requires successful completion of an approved Law Enforcement Training Program. Please select the one response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for these positions. Applicants must document how they meet this requirement, as indicated below, to be considered qualified for this position.
 A. I currently hold, or have previously held, a FLETC issued Land Management Police Training (LMPT), full Type I Law Enforcement Commission or equivalent within the past three years. (You must indicate your commission number and date, location and date of your last 40-hour refresher training, and the date of your last established proficiency in the use of firearms in your resume).
 B. I will successfully complete the above Type I Law Enforcement Training Program prior to the closing date of the announcement. (You must indicate your expected completion date in your resume).
 C. I do not have a Type I Law Enforcement Commission and will not be able to obtain one prior to the closing date of the announcement.
FACTOR: Maximum entry Age requirements (Screen-Out)
3. This is a covered secondary law enforcement position under the special retirement provisions of 5 U.S. C. 8336(c) (CSRS) and 8412(d) (FERS). Applicants for this position must possess experience gained by substantial service in a primary law enforcement position. Please select the response below that best describes how you meet this requirement.
 A. I possess substantial documented experience in a primary law enforcement position in the Federal government, or equivalent documented experience outside the Federal Government.
 B. I do not meet the primary law enforcement requirements for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected