Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator (Special Agent in Charge)
Agency
Office of the Inspector General for Tax Administration
Announcement Number
25-TIGTA-12790514 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 28, 2025 to Thursday, September 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current TIGTA employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current TIGTA employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current TIGTA employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Los Angeles, CA
 C. Dallas, TX
 D. Houston, TX
2. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
4. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
5. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
7.

Incumbents selected for Criminal Investigator positions are covered under special law enforcement provisions. This requires that applicants not exceed the maximum age for entry. The date immediately preceding an applicants 37th birthday is the final date for selection. The age restriction does not apply if you served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position covered by special civil service retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement.

If you are not subject to the age restriction because you have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above, you must submit an SF 50 (or equivalent documentation) showing service in a covered civilian law enforcement. OR If you are not subject to the age restriction because you are a preference eligible veteran, you must submit appropriate veterans documentation to establish that you are eligible for veteran's preference in order to waive the age requirements for this position.

Will you have reached your 37th birthday by the closing date of this announcement?

 A. I will NOT have reached my 37th birthday by the close of this announcement.
 B. I am not subject to the age restriction because I served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above.
 C. I am a preference eligible veteran and am not subject to the requirements above.
 D. I will be 37 or older by the close date of this announcement. I am not a preference eligible veteran and have not previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement (FLEO) position.
8.

Medical Requirements: The selectee must pass a pre-appointment physical examination and meet the physical requirements for this position as required by this agency. The duties of this position require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, hip, and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must be sufficiently intact and functioning in order that applicants may perform the duties satisfactorily. Sufficiently good vision and hearing are required to perform the duties satisfactorily. Because the duties of this position are exacting, responsible, and sometimes performed under trying conditions, the selectee must possess emotional and mental stability. Any physical condition that would cause the selectee to be a hazard to himself/herself, or others is disqualifying.

Do you meet the physical requirements as described above?

 A. Yes, I possess the requirements listed above.
 B. I do not possess the requirements listed above.
9. Which of the following defines your eligibility for this announcement?
 A. I am a current TIGTA employee on a career or career-conditional (permanent) appointment in the competitive service.
 B. I am a current TIGTA employee serving on a Veteran's Recruitment Appointment
 C. I am currently a Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program eligible. (I will provide the information required as described in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement.)
 D. I do not fit in any of the categories above and am therefore not eligible to apply to this announcement.
10. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Performance Appraisal
1. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent rating of record(i.e; final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management officials) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these requirements or if it is not dated within the last 18 months, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration.

Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirements, please provide a reason in the text box below. (This is required of all applicants regardless of prior federal service. "N/A" is not considered an acceptable response.)
Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-15 is one year (52 weeks) of experience at the GS-14 level, that is directly related to the position as listed above and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Examples of specialized experience include:
- Managing staff conducting on-going investigations (i.e., criminal, civil and administrative) of government programs and operations, public and private individuals, and corporations or entities; AND
- Conducting operational reviews and evaluating quality of work for subordinate staff; AND
- Leading employees in a management or supervisory capacity during investigations to ensure case documentation is accurate and up to date and all regulations, laws, and rules have been followed
1. Do you have one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level as described above?
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized investigative experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized investigative experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
2. Please choose the answer(s) that indicates your experience in expressing ideas effectively in writing (if subsequently interviewed, applicants will be required to provide an example(s) that supports their answer to this question).
 A. I have written investigative reports that involve investigative matters that required few if any corrections by supervisors and senior managers.
 B. I have written various types of documentation (i.e., hereafter meant to include letters, memoranda, internal position papers, etc.), both with and without having been tasked to do so (reactive and proactive writing), in order to timely and accurately, with few if any corrections required, respond to pending requests as well as to proactively resolve pending matters in order to prevent and minimize any adverse consequences they may have on any investigation.
 C. I have written documentation, that has been both planned and unscheduled (i.e., fire drills internal and external to the organization), on a daily if not hourly basis in order to provide updates on new as well as ongoing high profile investigations to my supervisor, manager, and senior officials both internal and external to my organization.
 D. I have written investigative reports that involve criminal investigative and employee misconduct matters occurring both within or directed against the operations of a Federal Agency or other high profile investigative matters (i.e., involving and interacting w/SES personnel, Members of Congress, media, private sector, and public stakeholders).
 E. I have written documentation which is sensitive and controversial for the purpose of identifying and correcting systemic program or operational safety concerns; create, improve, and attain effective programs and operations within an Agency (i.e., for the head of an Agency that requires him/her to make Congressional notification due to the nature and extent of a major compromise or exposure of program and operational weaknesses/vulnerabilities to the leadership as identified during the investigation etc.).
 F. None of the above.
3. Please choose the one answer that best indicates the extent of your experience expressing ideas orally in an effective manner.
 A. I have used my verbal skills to conduct interviews/interrogations, deliver investigative briefings and discuss investigative reports to managers, and Sr. leaders and externally to organizations (law enforcement partners, prosecutors, and litigators responsible for taking punitive and corrective action), present ideas and solutions to problems that require solutions but remain within legal parameters of the criminal justice system, regulations, policies, procedures, and agreements.
 B. I have experience conducting interviews/interrogations to obtain information from uncooperative or hostile witnesses/subjects/defendants, conduct structured/unstructured investigative briefings both scheduled/unscheduled, explain, answer questions, and defuse matters associated with sensitive, high profile, and controversial investigations, communicate on a daily basis, with little to no guidance being provided, and achieve the desired or correct outcome.
 C. None of the above.
4. Choose the statement(s) that describe your briefing skills (merging oral and written communication abilities) that you use as a regular part of your job to execute the investigative mission of the program within the context of the larger Departmental or Agency goals, objectives, and performance measures as set by the senior leadership while complying with applicable oversight policies and procedures.
 A. I have communicated with investigative field and headquarters offices, ensured integrated communication with legal, audit, management, and Sr. personnel of relevance and have internal and external oversight of the investigative organization, fostered proactive dialogue with executives within and outside of the Agency over the investigative organization, and with local, county, state, federal, tribal and international law enforcement, intelligence, security, legal, regulatory, legislative, private sector, media and individual stakeholders.
 B. I regularly communicate organizational strategies and annual plans, goals, objectives, priorities and performance measures (outcomes and outputs) in oral presentations to various levels of the investigative organization, the OIG, Department or Agency, stakeholders and partners.
 C. I explain and justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations of importance to the investigative program to employees, team leaders, supervisors, managers and senior leadership.
 D. I am the lead representative within my local area of responsibility when discussing the investigative mission operations on behalf of my organization, speak frequently on behalf of the larger organization (bureau or departmental office) as well as the Department or Agency that comprises both, and in meetings, internal and external to all three of these entities, as well as with third party individuals, business sectors, or organizations that interact or interface with the Department or Agency.
 E. I brief team leaders and supervisors (down or across the organization) as well as managers and the senior leadership (across or up organization) on the status of the investigative performance measures achieved and the overall progress attained as it relates to meeting the established strategic and annual goals and objectives.
 F. I have prepared written documents, and have orally communicated the same, regarding the investigative office, division, and/or branch's compliance with internal controls and external oversight policies and procedures (i.e., Council of Inspector’s General on Integrity and Efficiency (CIGIE) investigative and inspection standards) as well as have briefed internal and external oversight teams, management and/or CIGIE community leadership.
 G. I foster cooperation and consensus among groups of direct relevance to the investigative mission in order to achieve Department or Agency goals.
 H. I build consensus by collaborating with others to obtain information, achieve results, and accomplish goals of the investigative organization, Bureau or Departmental Office, and Agency or Department.
 I. None of the above.
5. Choose the statement(s) that describe your interpersonal communication skills. While you are encouraged to select all that may apply, if subsequently interviewed, applicants may be required to provide an example(s) that supports their answer(s) to this question.
 A. Exhibit the experience to make decisions and negotiate with others.
 B. Express thoughts or opinions in a logical sequence as a team or work group member.
 C. Communicate technical issues effectively to a wide variety of audiences.
 D. Participate in and represent the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 E. None of the above.
6. Choose the statement(s) that describe your skills in written/oral communication. If subsequently interviewed, applicants may be required to provide an example(s) that supports their answer to this question.
 A. I have provided input, to others who have prepared, a variety of reports, analyses, position papers, briefing papers, directives, policy statements, budget proposals, etc., that were presented by others to high-level investigative office management (division level or higher) regarding an array of difficult, sensitive, high profile, and/or controversial matters.
 B. I have been responsible for preparing said documentation, to include using the input of others, which were presented by others to high-level investigative office management (division level or higher) regarding an array of difficult, sensitive, high profile, and/or controversial matters.
 C. I have presented said documentation myself to high-level investigative office management (division level or higher) regarding an array of difficult, sensitive, high profile, and/or controversial matters.
 D. I have presented said documentation myself to high-level bureau of departmental office management regarding an array of difficult, sensitive, high profile, and/or controversial matters.
 E. I have presented said documentation myself on behalf of high-level bureau or departmental office management regarding an array of difficult, sensitive, high profile, and/or controversial matters.
 F. I have presented said documentation myself to high-level Departmental or Agency management or senior leadership regarding an array of difficult, sensitive, high profile, and/or controversial investigative matters.
 G. I have presented said documentation myself to high-level external oversight officials associated with organizations like the Council of Inspector’s General on Integrity and Efficiency, Office of Management and Budget, or Members of Congress (or their staffs) regarding an array of difficult, sensitive, high profile, and/or controversial matters.
 H. None of the above.
7. Choose the statement(s) that best describe your communication/briefing skills that you use as a regular part of your job to support agency goals and the agency leadership.
 A. I regularly communicate organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities in oral presentations to various levels of stakeholders.
 B. I explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations to managers and/or employees.
 C. I represent my agency in meetings with third party individuals and/or organizations.
 D. I brief managers on agency policy, goals, and objectives.
 E. I defend or explain agency position(s) with external entities or third parties who perform oversight review of programs.
 F. I foster cooperation and obtain consensus among groups in achieving agency goals.
 G. I build consensus by collaborating with others to obtain information, achieve results, and accomplish goals.
 H. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. Have you performed investigative tasks in which you determined the most appropriate regulatory provision for a given situation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Have you ever had to apply International, Federal, State, County and Local laws and/or regulations to your investigations that involved the jurisdiction and/or authorities possessed by others?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Please indicate which one of the following responses describes what level you have supervised or overseen and coordinated your investigative efforts with others.
 A. Internal to your organization.
 B. Internal to a bureau or departmental office within your Department/Agency (Dep. Director or Director and Dep. Asst. Sec. or Asst. Sec.).
 C. Internal to the Department/Agency (Under Sec., Dep. Sec., Sec.).
 D. External with another Federal Department/Agency.
 E. External with another international, state, county, or local agency.
 F. External with Members of Congress or their staffs, the media, stakeholders, or the public.
 G. None of the above.
11. Please choose the one answer that best summarizes your experience in planning, prioritizing, organizing, and executing assignments (performance-based case management).
 A. As an individual, I have planned and developed a strategy for initiating and continuing an investigation, planned and participated in a major investigation, and modified goals for either type of investigation to conform to newly released information or constraints.
 B. As a supervisor or as a leader of a team, I have proactively initiated assignments derived from leads, tips, or developed initiatives, ensured the investigative or operational plans of others were organized, accurate and timely, the assignments made, priorities set and schedules made by and/or with others supervised or led, were always monitored to fulfill program and operational requirements, and with the purpose of moving cases forward, utilizing appropriate techniques and methods to include those that ensure for the safety and legality of others work while maximizing their creativity, to achieve desired performance outcomes.
 C. As a supervisor or team leader, I have developed and refined strategic and annual plans (mission, vision, goals, objectives, performance measure) and immediate operational or tactical plans, integrating all types of planning to ensure for performance-based case management within the personnel supervised or team led as well as the overarching organization.
 D. None of the above.
12. Choose all of the statements that apply to you regarding the types of investigations you have been involved with as well as have either supervised or led an investigative team (in the event you are interviewed, you may be asked to provide an example of each).
 A. Criminal investigation (leading to prosecution).
 B. Administrative investigation (serious employee misconduct leading to discipline.
 C. Criminal, civil and/or administrative investigation (having 2 if not all 3 types of actions occurring in cases supervised or led).
 D. Undercover operation.
 E. Multi-program, high profile (Congressional, news media, or other public interest), involving key executives (senior governmental, contractor, or external entities integral to the Department/Agency’s program or operation).
 F. Internal affairs cases or oversight of law Enforcement, police or security.
 G. Intelligence or National Security Community cases or oversight.
 H. Federal cases.
 I. Local, County, State, Tribal or International cases.
 J. Seizures and/or Forfeitures.
 K. Contractors and/or Grantees.
 L. Suspensions and/or Debarments.
 M. Foreign/Non-U.S. Citizens residing either in the U.S. or in a foreign country.
 N. None of the above.
13. As a supervisor or team leader, which one response best describes your experience to adapt to change?
 A. Personally, I really do not like to change so I don’t press my employees or team members hard to try and do things differently.
 B. On the rare occasion I think I need to change, I still try not letting internal or external developments change the way I have planned to respond to a developing or otherwise time sensitive matter.
 C. Even if I need to actually change the way my subordinates or team members handle a situation, since I normally know best what needs to be done to fix the problem, I take care of it on my own but I do eventually tell them what I felt I had to do.
 D. I have worked with my subordinates or team members to discuss any change in our tactics that might be required during an investigation due to the receipt of new information, refocused our preparation for a legal case in response to the receipt of new information, and/or revised case strategy during a hearing to address unforeseen testimony.
 E. While I try to act as a buffer between those I supervise or lead and those who are my boss or senior to me , in particular when I may respectfully disagree with their assessment of the need for timely change, I offer my input and, although I may still disagree, as long as the issue does not involve an unsafe, unethical or illegal situation I work through the issue by engaging my subordinates or team members for the purpose of timely redirecting any previously existing investigative plan to successfully complete the urgent task at hand.
 F. If otherwise asked or directed to continue to do my core duties as well as some of those of my boss or others given the urgency of whatever the situation is, I willingly assume that additional workload and, as required, work time beyond my core hours to accomplish any mission-related time sensitive deadline.
 G. Change is practically a cornerstone of everything we do today, as such, I have learned to proactively embrace it, solicit the input of those involved or impacted, and fix whatever needs to be done.
 H. None of the above.
14. Which of the following statements best describe your experience working with a case reporting management system:
 A. I am fluent with system functionality to search and acquire useful information for reports and analysis.
 B. I am able to gather disparate data points for use in reports and analysis, and have requested, or established, specific data query requests in order to secure relevant data to a specific query.
 C. I have limited experience working in the system as a supervisor, approving and investigative entries and time and attendance.
 D. I have limited experience working in the system as a field agent, inputting information.
 E. I have no experience moving around in the system.
15. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience.
16. Please choose the one answer that best summarizes your experience with processing Inspector General Subpoenas within the Office of Investigations:
 A. I am fully aware of and have participated in the processing of IG subpoenas.
 B. I am aware of the processing procedure of IG subpoenas but have not participated in this process.
 C. I have no experience with processing IG subpoenas.
17. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
18. Do you have experience working with threat-based intelligence and with its analysis for agency relevancy and further dissemination for agency consumption?
 A. Yes
 B. No
19. Which one statement best describes your experience with law enforcement and criminal justice theories, techniques, procedures and practices? If subsequently interviewed, applicants may be required to provide an example(s) that supports their answer to this question.
 A. I have applied law enforcement, investigative, and criminal justice techniques and procedures in order to conduct, assist with, and supervise or oversee stakeouts and the collection of evidence by obtaining subpoenas (grand jury and administrative) or search warrant, proactively initiate investigations and undercover operations, make arrests, as well as, prepare and present investigative findings to include providing testimony as a witness and assisting the prosecutor, litigator, and corrective action administrative personnel in reaching a successful performance outcome.
 B. I have used policies and procedures that are unique to my organization and the Department/Agency to properly conduct, participate in, coordinate, and supervise or lead investigations involving high profile cases.
 C. I have used guidelines in accordance with the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, as proscribed by the Department of Justice (DOJ) and in accordance with the Council of Inspector’s General on Integrity and Efficiency (CIGIE) to properly conduct, participate in, coordinate, and supervise or lead investigations involving high profile investigations.
 D. None of the above.
20. Choose all that you have encountered while working through an investigation.
 A. Been a technical liaison internal and external to the organization and Department/Agency.
 B. Led a team, supervised or managed cases which involved high profile key executives, private individuals or other entities who were government executives, corporate or private individuals who are or involved contractors or grantees.
 C. Led a team, supervised or managed a sensitive, and highly visible multi-jurisdictional electronic crimes related investigations with national or international impact.
 D. None of the above.
21. Choose all of the following that best describes your experiences in a law enforcement agency.
 A. I have experience supervising or leading a team of investigators and support staff that involves providing advice, guidance, and assistance regarding criminal and administrative investigations of the programs and operations (to include those of a regulatory nature) of a local or county governmental agency.
 B. I have experience supervising or leading a team of investigators and support staff that involves providing advice, guidance, and assistance regarding criminal and administrative investigations of the programs and operations (to include those of a regulatory nature) of a State agency.
 C. I have experience supervising or leading a team of investigators and support staff that involves providing advice, guidance, and assistance regarding criminal and administrative investigations of the programs and operations (to include those of a regulatory nature) of a Federal Department/Agency.
 D. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
22. Do you have experience with the Office of Inspector General (OIG) mission, goals, objectives, and performance measures that guide their investigative, operational, and administrative programs?
 A. Yes
 B. No
23. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience.
24. Please indicate which one of the following responses best describes your experience in preparing and executing a divisional budget to include identifying priorities and reallocating funds:
 A. As an agent, I have planned and submitted budget request for investigations and or proposed projects.
 B. As a supervisor or as a leader of a team, I have proactively initiated budget request, or developed budgets to ensure the investigative or operational plans were fully funded, and that priorities were set.
 C. As a supervisor or team leader, I have developed and refined budgets for both operational needs and annual divisional needs to meet mission goals and objectives.
 D. None of the above.
25. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
26. Have you, on a regular and recurring basis, prepared or provided input for the performance evaluations of subordinate or team professional staff?
 A. Yes
 B. No
27. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
28. Do you have experience supervising subordinates or team members to ensure that senior management's objectives are met, senior management is provided with accurate and timely information, and administrative processes are in place and working effectively?
 A. Yes
 B. No
29. Please choose one response that best describes your experience in managing or supervising a team of employees who provide specialized investigative support.
 A. I have no experience managing, supervising, or leading a team of employees.
 B. I have led a team of fellow co-workers.
 C. I have served as a first-line supervisor.
 D. I have served as a manager, with responsibility for leading first-line supervisors.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
30. I am currently or have been a permanent first line supervisor
 A. Yes
 B. No
31. Identify the section(s) of your resume (e.g., job title, dates, employer) which reflect this experience.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected