Position Title
BUDGET ANALYST
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OT-IMP-12777730-PKL Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 to Monday, August 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of GS-14?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Federal employees who competed for and currently hold, or have previously held, a permanent position of GS-14 (or equivalent) or higher, may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-11 position with promotion potential to the GS-13.  The progression is GS-11, GS-12, and GS-13.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-14 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You previously held a GS-14 position on a permanent basis.  GS-14 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Indianapolis, IN
 C. Ashburn, VA
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. This vacancy has a local commuting area requirement, as defined below:
The area surrounding the duty station by which people reasonably travel back and forth from home to work; Or
The employee's permanent duty station is located within the reasonable travel area surrounding the duty station of this vacancy; Or if applicable
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for less than 1 year) to another duty location, the permanent duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for more than 1 year) to another duty location, the detailed or temporary duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
Do you meet the local commuting area requirement?
 A. A. Yes, I meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
 B. B. No, I do not meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that included: Developing, executing, and overseeing a large program financial plan and/or spend plan; Gathering, documenting, refining, and overseeing requirements for a large program budget and/or financial plan; Providing guidance and oversight of budgetary and financial management to personnel; Using financial and management tools (including computer software such as databases, SAP, Excel and OneNote, project planning tools, and program management methodologies) that can be used to resolve issues with planning, evaluation, and control; Providing financial program management and analytical/evaluation.
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience managing budget execution operations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have managed budget execution operations by entering or verifying funds under the direction of a senior employee.
 C. I have managed the complete process of budget execution operations for small projects or programs.
 D. I have managed the complete process of budget execution operations for large organizations with complex requirements.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring that obligations and expenditures are performed in accordance with laws and regulations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others to ensure that obligations and expenditures are performed in accordance with existing laws and regulations.
 C. I have been responsible for ensuring that obligations and expenditures are performed in accordance with existing laws and regulations.
 D. I have extensive experience ensuring that obligations and expenditures are performed in accordance with existing laws and regulations across multiple programs.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience allocating resources.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have ensured that resources are allocated in a manner that is timely, efficient, and as authorized under the direction of a senior employee.
 C. I have been responsible for ensuring that resources are allocated in a manner that is timely, efficient, and as authorized.
 D. I have extensive experience ensuring that resources are allocated in a manner that is timely, efficient, and as authorized across multiple programs.
 E. I am recognized as an expert at ensuring that resources are allocated in a manner that is timely, efficient, and as authorized across multiple programs. I have also take action to improve the allocation process by recommending new processes or technologies."
5. Indicate the extent of your experience verifying that expenditures are consistent with financial controls.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have verified that expenditures are consistent with existing financial controls under the direction of a senior employee.
 C. I have verified that expenditures are consistent with financial controls, and recommended changes to existing financial controls or processes.
 D. I have verified that expenditures are consistent with financial controls and I have developed additional financial controls or processes to improve the process for verifying and tracking expenditures.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience using automated budgeting applications (e.g., SAP) to generate analyses.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have used automated budgeting applications (e.g., SAP) to generate analyses of program budgets and projections under the direction of a senior employee.
 C. I have used automated budgeting applications (e.g., SAP) to generate analyses of program budgets, develop budget projections, and identify trends.
 D. I have extensive experience with automated budgeting applications (e.g., SAP) to generate analyses of program budgets, develop budget projections, and identify trends across multiple programs.
 E. I have extensive experience with automated budgeting applications (e.g., SAP) to generate analyses of program budgets, develop budget projections, and identify trends across multiple programs. I have used my findings to refine program assumptions; and improve accuracy of budget execution.
7. Do you have experience serving as an expert advisor to managers and leadership on all aspects of budgeting?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Have you been responsible for ensuring the integrity of work related to an annual program budget?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Indicate the extent to which you have assisted managers and leadership with the development of budgetary and financial documentation.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted managers and leadership with the development of budgetary and financial documentation under the direction of a senior employee.
 C. I have been responsible for working with managers and leadership to develop budgetary and financial documentation.
 D. I have extensive experience working with multiple managers and leadership teams to develop complex budgetary and financial documentation. I have developed this information for unique or innovative programs wherein templates were not available.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience preparing analyses and estimates of annual funding needs.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience preparing analyses and estimates of annual funding needs.
 C. I have prepared analyses and estimates of annual funding needs.
 D. I have extensive experience preparing detailed analyses and estimates of annual funding needs for multiple programs.
11. Select the response that best describes your experience interpreting and applying accounting principles.

 A. I have had no training or experience related to this knowledge.
 B. I have completed education or training related to accounting principles, but I have not applied this knowledge in my work.
 C. I have interpreted and applied generally accepted accounting principles under the direction of a senior employee.
 D. I have interpreted and applied generally accepted accounting principles as a regular and recurring part of my work.
 E. I have interpreted and applied generally accepted accounting principles as a regular and recurring part of my work. I am considered an expert and have provided guidance to others on the application of generally accepted accounting principles.
12. Select the response that best describes your experience interpreting and applying financial oversight policies, regulations, and standards.

 A. I have had no training or experience related to this knowledge.
 B. I have completed education or training related to financial oversight policies, regulations, and standards, but I have not applied this knowledge in my work.
 C. I have interpreted and applied financial oversight policies, regulations, and standards under the direction of a senior employee.
 D. I have interpreted and applied financial oversight policies, regulations, and standards (e.g., Office of Management and Budget Circular A-11, Federal Acquisition Regulations, Government Accountability Office Standards) as a regular and recurring part of my work.
 E. I have interpreted and applied financial oversight policies, regulations, and standards (e.g., Office of Management and Budget Circular A-11, Federal Acquisition Regulations, Government Accountability Office Standards) as a regular and recurring part of my work. I am considered an expert and have provided guidance to others on the application of these financial oversight policies.
13. Select the response that best describes your experience providing customer service related to budget and financial issues.

 A. I have had no training or experience related to this knowledge.
 B. I have limited experience providing customer service related to budget and financial issues. I have attended customer-facing meetings and interacted with customers under the direction of a senior employee.
 C. I have provided customer service related to budget and financial issues. I have conducted customer-facing meetings to include assessing needs and expectations.
14. Select the response that best describes your experience writing financial documents.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written portions of documents to support budgetary requests under the direction of a senior employee.
 C. I have written documents to support the budgetary process. I have connected funding needs and program accomplishments to dollar figures in a clear and convincing manner.
 D. I have written documents to support multiple budgetary processes and to connect funding needs and program accomplishments to dollar figures in a clear and convincing manner.
 E. I have written documents to support multiple budgetary processes and to connect funding needs and program accomplishments to dollar figures in a clear and convincing manner. I have also developed written guidance and policies to ensure high quality budget documentation.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience planning, organizing, and carrying out annual and multi-year budgeting requirements

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in planning, organizing, and carrying out annual and multi-year budgeting requirements under the direction of a senior employee.
 C. I have been responsible for planning, organizing, and carrying out annual and multi-year budgeting requirements.
 D. I have extensive experience planning, organizing, and carrying out annual and multi-year budgeting requirements. I have performed these tasks for multiple programs.
16. Do you have experience defending the official fiscal year budget to justify funds?

 A. Yes
 B. No
17. Indicate the extent of your experience creating budgeting policies to ensure compliance with laws, regulations, and directives.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in the development of budgeting policies by reviewing and summarizing relevant laws, regulations, and directives.
 C. I have created budgeting policies by reviewing and summarizing relevant laws, regulations, and directives. I have included guidance to improve the effectiveness of budget operations/administration.
18. Indicate the extent of your experience in translating goals into action plans.

 A. I have participated in a local process or project to identify action items that support established program goals.
 B. I have led a local process or project to establish action items that support established program goals.
 C. I have led a process or project for the conversion of agency goals to the action items for a principal organizational unit or equivalent.
 D. I have overseen a process or project for the conversion of agency goals to the action items for a principal organizational unit or equivalent. I have monitored the resulting action plans, made appropriate adjustments, and measured goal accomplishment.
19. Have you served on a task force, committee, or presented symposia concerning budgeting/ financial policies, systems, and control systems?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected