Position Title
Investigative Specialist
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12784742-CVD-ST-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Friday, September 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current DHS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current Federal employee who meets one of the following criteria?
 In a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)
OR
With an excepted service agency but can be hired into the competitive service because you meet the criteria of an Interchange Agreement. Additional information about current Interchange Agreements can be found here. 

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you wish to be considered as a current Federal employee who meets one of the following criteria?

I have held, or currently hold either: 
 A permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised
OR
An appointment with an excepted service agency but can be hired into the competitive service because I meet the criteria of an Interchange Agreement, with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised. Additional information about current Interchange Agreements can be found here. 
Note: If your position referenced above is not on the GS pay scale, your pay must be at or above the representative rate (step 04) of the full performance level of this position. 

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block 34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you wish to be considered as a former Federal employee who previously held a permanent position that was in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?

Note: If your position referenced above is not on the GS pay scale, your pay must be at or above the representative rate (step 04) of the full performance level of this position. 

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block 34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you wish to be considered as a former Federal Employee in the civilian service who previously held a position that was in the competitive service and is eligible to be reinstated? (See block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type) 

More information about the eligibility requirements for reinstatement can be found here. 

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment. It is also recommended that you submit the SF-50 showing your separation.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7.

Do you wish to be considered under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) because you are a current or former Federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.704

For more information about ICTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current (or former) time-limited employee of one or more of the following Land Management Agencies or Base Facilities Management Agencies?

Land Management:
Department of Agriculture: Forest Service
Department of the Interior: Bureau of Land Management
Department of the Interior: National Park Service
Department of the Interior: Fish and Wildlife Service
Department of the Interior: Bureau of Indian Affairs
Department of the Interior: Bureau of Reclamation
Base Facilities Management:
The Department of Defense, Defense Industrial Base Facility
The Department of Defense Major Range and Test Facilities Base
To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Copies of your Notification of Personnel Actions(s) (SF-50):
Showing you have served in the appropriate appointment(s) for a period/periods totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years.
You must also submit the initial hire action, extensions, conversion, and termination/separation SF-50s for each service period.
Appropriate documentation to verify your acceptable level of performance, which is supported by one or more of the following:
Performance rating(s) showing an acceptable level of performance for period(s) of employment signed by your supervisor;
A statement from your supervisor(s) or other individual in the supervisory chain indicating an acceptable level of performance for the period(s) of employment; or
A stated reason as to the reason the appraisal/documentation is not available and a statement that your performance for all periods was at an acceptable level, your most recent separation was for reasons other than misconduct or performance, and you were never notified that you were not eligible for rehire based on performance.
You must submit all required documents by the closing date of the announcement with your application package.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former DHS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606.
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Do you wish to be considered under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) because you meet one of the following criteria?
Are a preference-eligible veteran,
OR
Are a veteran separated from the armed forces after three (3) or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. 
Note: Veterans claiming eligibility on the basis of service in a campaign or expedition for which a medal was awarded must be in receipt of the campaign badge or medal.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
DD-214 showing character of service, and
If applying based on your preference as a disabled veteran, you must submit your letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) showing the combined service-connected disability rating, or other acceptable documentation. 
See OPM's Vet Guide or SF-15 for more information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Aliso Viejo, CA
 B. Los Angeles, CA
 C. Camp Springs, MD
 D. South Burlington, VT
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
3. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
5. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-12 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
5. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-12. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
6. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-13. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
7. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in developing investigative plans for employee misconduct investigations?
 A. I have no experience, education, or training in developing investigative plans for employee misconduct reports.
 B. I have led or supervised a team developing investigative plans for employee misconduct investigations.
 C. I have independently developed investigative plans for employee misconduct investigations.
 D. I have assisted others in developing investigative plans for employee misconduct investigations.
8. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience related to evidence handling/collecting?
 A. I have not had formal education and/or training related to evidence handling/collecting.
 B. I have had education and/or training in evidence handling/collecting.
 C. Under close supervision I have handled/collected evidence.
 D. I have independently collected/handled evidence.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, handling/collecting evidence.
9. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience analyzing investigative reports?
 A. I reviewed investigative reports in a training/education setting, but do not have professional experience.
 B. I independently analyzed investigative reports by identifying the issues in the investigation and providing a written report detailing the issues.
 C. I analyzed investigative reports under supervision, where I drafted a written report detailing the issues and a superior reviewed and finalized it.
 D. None of the above.
10. Which statement best describes your experience writing investigative reports?
 A. I have had education/training in writing investigative reports.
 B. I have assisted senior investigators in writing investigative reports.
 C. I have independently written investigative reports.
 D. I have provided review of written investigative reports.
 E. I have no experience related to writing investigative reports.
11. Select the communications activities you have completed.
 A. Managed a team that coordinated workforce communication campaigns
 B. Reviewed current communication plans and identified weaknesses
 C. Prioritized communication needs from portfolios and senior management
 D. Managed social media activities (e.g., drafted posts, monitored responses)
 E. Ensured print, online, and multimedia materials were developed in compliance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act
 F. Conducted user testing of proposed system changes
 G. None of the above
12. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience briefing high-level officials on investigative matters?
 A. I have completed education and/or training related to briefing high-level officials on investigative matters.
 B. I have drafted briefings of highly sensitive information for senior level management.
 C. I made recommendations to management officials related to investigative matters.
 D. I regularly advised senior level executives and managers on policy development related to investigative matters.
 E. I have no experience briefing high-level officials on investigative matters.
13. Which documents have you independently written?
 A. Incident reports
 B. Interview reports
 C. Report of investigations
 D. Investigative policy
 E. Investigative training
 F. Official memoranda
 G. Briefing papers for upper management
 H. None of the above
14. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience briefing high-level officials on investigative matters?
 A. I have completed education and/or training related to briefing high-level officials on investigative matters.
 B. I have drafted briefings of highly sensitive information for senior level management.
 C. I made recommendations to management officials related to investigative matters.
 D. I regularly advised senior level executives and managers on policy development related to investigative matters.
 E. I have no experience briefing high-level officials on investigative matters.
15. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience advising on evidence procedures?
 A. I have not had formal education and/or training advising on evidence procedures.
 B. I have had education and/or training in evidence procedures.
 C. Under close supervision I have advised on evidence procedures.
 D. I have independently advised on evidence procedures.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, advising on evidence procedures.
16. Which statement best describes your highest level provide training to unit personnel on interview room system operations as requested?
 A. I have no experience in providing training on system operations.
 B. I have had education or training in providing training to unit personnel on system operations.
 C. I have provided training to unit personnel on system operations under close supervision.
 D. I have independently provided training to unit personnel on system operations.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, providing training to unit personnel on system operations as requested.
17. I testified at a formal hearing regarding justification of adverse decisions.
 A. True
 B. False
18. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience operating and maintaining interview room recording equipment?
 A. I have no experience in operating and maintaining interview room recording equipment.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform operating and maintaining interview room recording equipment.
 C. I have operated and maintained interview room recording equipment under close supervision.
 D. I have independently operated and maintained interview room recording equipment.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, operating and maintaining interview room recording equipment.
19. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources?
 A. I have no education, training, or experience in using fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources.
 B. I have formal education or training in using fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources.
 C. I have used fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources under close supervision.
 D. I have independently regularly used fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, using fact-finding methods and techniques to gather investigative information from various sources.
20. Which type of employee investigations have you performed?
 A. Misconduct
 B. Fraud
 C. Conflict of interest
 D. False statements
 E. Kickbacks
 F. Other administrative violations
 G. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
21. I have conducted investigations of egregious misconduct by senior managers.
 A. Yes
 B. No
22. Which investigative activities have you performed?
 A. Written reports of investigations
 B. Developed investigated plans
 C. Collected evidence
 D. Utilized investigative databases
 E. Conducted complainant interviews
 F. Conducted witness interviews
 G. Conducted subject interviews
 H. Administering rights
 I. None of the above
23. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting investigations of employee misconduct?
 A. I have education and/or training related to conducting investigations of employee misconduct.
 B. I have assisted other investigators in conducting investigations of employee misconduct.
 C. I have been the case agent on investigations of employee misconduct.
 D. I have led a team of investigators in conducting investigations of employee misconduct.
 E. I have no experience related to investigations of employee misconduct.
24. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
25. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected