Position Title
Supervisory Patent Examiner - TC1600
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
PATS - 1600-25-12765842-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 31, 2025 to Thursday, August 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Patent and Trademark Office employee in the competitive service?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Block #24 Tenure 1 or 2) and Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1). 

Please note: Examples of appropriate SF-50s include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may have to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current USPTO employee who holds or has previously held a career or career-conditional position in the competitive service at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced?

If eligible, submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.
Your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Block #24 Tenure 1 or 2) AND
Your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Block #34 Position Occupied is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 A. Email
 B. Facebook
 C. Instagram
 D. LinkedIn
 E. @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 F. Reddit
 G. Google Reviews
 H. Handshake University Platform
 I. Monster
 J. Indeed
 K. Glassdoor
 L. USAJOBS
 M. University Job Board
 N. Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 O. Friend
 P. USPTO Employee
 Q. Professional Society / Organization
 R. State Bar Association
 S. University Career Fair
 T. Conference
 U. University Career Placement Office
 V. Virtual Job Fair
 W. USPTO Information Session
 X. USPTO Jobs web pages
 Y. USPTO website
 Z. Other
2. Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
--Select-- 
--Select--
I am not a current Federal civilian employee
Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
Other
4. If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.
Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
WARNING STATEMENT: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. The following questions will be used to determine your minimum qualifications for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Specialized experience is defined as experience examining patents in art areas involving experience searching and/or examining patent applications involving one or more of the following art areas: biotechnology, biomedical, pharmaceutical, materials engineering, mechanical, business methods, electrical, computer, physics or chemical technologies.

Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level or the equivalent pay band in the Federal service?
 
 Yes
No


Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level or the equivalent pay band in the Federal service?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you have full signatory authority?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please select the response that best describes your supervisory/managerial experience.

 A. Managed a subordinate staff and built support for goals and projects from people who do not report to me and over whom I have no authority. Work with high-level program officials in setting overall goals and objectives for assigned staff. Adjust staffing levels or work procedures to accommodate changes to Agency goals or strategic initiatives.
 B. Supervised a subordinate staff. Utilized technical data, suggestions, statistics, and performed other administrative functions. Decide the methodologies for achieving goals and objectives for assigned staff.
 C. Assisted in the development of production-oriented staff through formalized training programs, approval of work product and mentoring on established practices and procedures.
 D. Relied upon by superiors to review and approve the work product of others and/or to provide technical guidance.
 E. None of the above.
4. Please select the response that best describes your knowledge and experience in the training and development of a team through work accomplishments.

 A. Responsible for the training and development of team members with a focus to ensure a quality work product, providing problem solving methods and techniques and advice on work methods /practices/procedures. Provide guidance or input for performance reviews of team members, including suggesting room for improvement.
 B. Conducted formalized training on work methods/practices/procedures. Communicate work assignments, problems, program issues to team with appropriate deadlines and time frames for completion.
 C. Provide guidance to team in accomplishment of work task(s), identifying, distributing and balancing workload.
 D. Monitored and reported on the status and progress of the work product of team members.
 E. None of the above.
5. Please select the responses that describe your experience training, developing, motivating, and evaluating staff.

 A. Coordinate the work of others in a supervisory setting
 B. Deal with interpersonal issues
 C. Set priorities
 D. Review the work of others
 E. Motivate staff to achieve organizational goals and objectives
 F. Develop measures that evaluate performance
 G. Foster teamwork
 H. Ascertain that staff is well-trained
 I. Knowledge of current regulations and procedures
 J. Develop standard operating procedures
 K. Facilitate group training techniques
 L. Make recommendations and proposals concerning overall plans and proposals that impact human capital
 M. Streamline policies and procedures
 N. Assign work
 O. Effectively manage numerous competing projects and responsibilities
 P. Establish and abolish positions
 Q. Improve the performance of others through constructive feedback and identify room for improvement
 R. Guide others in overcoming challenges with and/or adapting to change
 S. Identify and implement methods to boost morale
 T. None of the above
6. Select the statement that best describes your experience with scientific and technical matters associated with the patent process in one of the following art areas: Biotechnology, Biomedical, Pharmaceutical or Organic Chemistry.
 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have provided guidance and advice on scientific or technical issues related to patent/technology matters on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have provided guidance and advice on scientific or technical issues related to patent/technology matters as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in providing guidance and advice on scientific or technical issues related to patent/technology matters and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
7. Select the statement that best describes your experience with legal matters associated with the patent process, which includes demonstrated competence in examination practice and procedure or comparable experience in the patent field.

 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have provided guidance and advice on the patent process in the designated area with close supervision from a supervisor or senior
 D. I have provided guidance and advice on the patent process in the designated area independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised or acted on behalf of my supervisor in the performance of this task including training others in the patent process in the designated area and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
8. Select the statement that best describes your experience with making authoritative interpretations of legal precedents.

 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have provided guidance and advice on making authoritative interpretations of legal precedents with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have provided guidance and advice on making authoritative interpretations of legal precedents and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in making authoritative interpretations of legal precedents and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
9. Please select the response that best describes your experience and/or ability to communicate with various levels of employees and management in order to obtain and provide information.
 A. I have applied communication skills to conduct work activities with internal and external customers as well as co-workers and superiors. I have responded to inquiries regarding non-technical or routine matters.
 B. I have made informative and persuasive communications in a business setting on specialized but not complex issues.
 C. I have typically maintained effective ongoing contacts and working relationships with personnel at various levels throughout the organization as well as external contacts.
 D. I have discussed and explained technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 E. None of the above
10. Please select the response that best describes your ability to communicate effectively in writing.
 A. Working independently, I have produced written communications within a work area requiring original composition of a detailed nature. Written material consisted primarily of generating reports, providing comprehensive communications on procedures or regulations as well as communicating basic concepts.
 B. I have produced written communications within a work area requiring some original composition of a routine nature. Written material consists of small or routine reports, responses to inquiries, as well as communicating basic ideas, procedures or regulations.
 C. I have demonstrated experience in writing communications, reports or documents that provide instructions, request information and /or set out factual data and was normally disseminated outside the work area assigned.
 D. I have experience in copying information from one document to another, preparing correspondence from model letters and paragraphs, and format letters or other documents.
 E. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected