Position Title
Customs and Border Protection Officer
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
CBPO GS9 26-1 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Friday, October 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
MAXIMUM AGE REQUIREMENT: This position has a maximum age requirement. The following questions are to determine if you meet this requirement or if you are eligible for a waiver of this requirement based on previous federal law enforcement covered experience or veterans' preference.

Please ensure you enter your date of birth accurately.



1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


In accordance with DHS Directive 251-03 and the Commissioner of CBP, candidates must be referred before reaching their 40th birthday. Unless the below criteria applies, you must meet this age requirement by the date of referral.

Previous Federal Law Enforcement Officer Service: Service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8401(36) (as a Customs and Border Protection Officer) on or after July 6, 2008, may be applied toward the maximum age requirement. You must submit proof of prior creditable LEO service at the time of application (e.g., SF-50s).

OR

Veterans' Preference Eligibility: To ensure compliance with statutes pertaining to the appointment of preference eligible veterans as determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board in its decision of Isabella v. Dept. of State, the maximum age articulated above shall not apply to the hiring of individuals entitled to veterans' preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312. You must submit proof of veterans' preference eligibility at the time of application.


2.
If you are requesting an age waiver based on creditable Federal law enforcement service; you must submit copies of your SF-50s (Notice of Personnel Actions) reflecting the beginning and end of creditable Federal civilian (not military) service under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c), title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service covered by Public Law 110-161 on or after July 6, 2008. Block 30 of your SF-50 should indicate Retirement Code M or O.

NOTE: Military law enforcement and Transportation Security Officers (TSO) working for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) are not considered law enforcement covered positions for the purpose of this announcement.

Are you requesting an age waiver based on previous Federal law enforcement experience covered by the law enforcement retirement coverage documented as M or O on your SF-50(s)?
 No, I am not requesting an age waiver based on previous Federal law enforcement officer experience under Federal law enforcement retirement coverage.
 Yes, I am requesting an age waiver based on previous Federal law enforcement experience under Federal law enforcement retirement coverage and I will upload the required SF-50 documents to this application.


If you are requesting an age waiver based on previous Federal law enforcement retirement coverage as shown on your SF-50, you will enter the number of months earned in those positions below. If you do not have previous Federal law enforcement service under the retirement coverage, enter a "0" below.

If you enter a number other than "0" below, you are required to submit an SF-50(s) with this application to support the number of months earned in that qualifying position. The SF-50(s) must show the retirement code in Block 30 is either M or O.

Please ensure you are entering the number of MONTHS not years (for example: if you have one year of previous FLEO retirement covered service you would enter "12" in the box below).



3.
Enter the number of MONTHS of Federal service experience you have attained as a firefighter, law enforcement or air traffic controller.


If you are requesting an age waiver based on veterans' preference eligibility, you must submit the required documentation for the type of preference you select below. If you are not a veteran or you do not have veterans' preference eligibility, select one of the "no preference" options below.



4.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


5.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who meets one of the following criteria:
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) Eligible:  You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
Displaced DHS employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration: 
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year from date of separation from DHS due to a Workers Compensation Claim? 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Duty locations are determined based on operational needs and mission requirements as determined by the CBP Office of Field Operations once an applicant successfully completes pre-employment. Current CBP Officers looking for lateral opportunities within the Office of Field Operations should apply under the National Reassignment Opportunity Bulletin (NROB), Lateral Reassignment Opportunity Bulletin (LROB) and/or other reassignment opportunities identified in the National Collective Bargaining Agreement (NCBA).

The duty locations offered to you may include any geographic location within the United States that meets agency mission critical needs.

Select your preferred duty location from the list below.
Anchorage, Alaska
Douglas, Arizona
Lukeville, Arizona
Nogales, Arizona
San Luis, Arizona
Calexico, California
Otay Mesa, California
San Francisco, California
San Ysidro, California
Tecate, California
Washington, DC
Key West, Florida
Honolulu, Hawaii
Calais, Maine
Houlton, Maine
Jackman, Maine
Madawaska, Maine
Van Buren, Maine
Vanceboro, Maine
Detroit, Michigan
Port Huron, Michigan
Sault Ste Marie, Michigan
Grand Portage, Minnesota
International Falls, Minnesota
Raymond, Montana
Roosville, Montana
Sweetgrass, Montana
Wild Horse, Montana
Santa Teresa, New Mexico
Alexandria Bay, New York
Champlain, New York
Massena, New York
Trout River, New York
Dunseith, North Dakota
Pembina, North Dakota
Portal, North Dakota
Del Rio, Texas
Hidalgo, Texas
Progreso, Texas
Beecher Falls, Vermont
Derby Line, Vermont
Highgate Springs, Vermont
Norton, Vermont
Richford, Vermont
Blaine, Washington
Oroville, Washington
Sumas, Washington


2.
Applicants who receive a tentative offer of employment must successfully complete a polygraph examination. Provided below is a list of locations where polygraph examinations are offered. Please select the location where you prefer to complete your polygraph examination. CBP will do its best to schedule you at your preferred location. However, you may be required to travel to attend the polygraph. CBP will not reimburse you for travel to or from the polygraph site. You will be contacted by the Office of Professional Responsibility to schedule the required polygraph examination.
AZ: Tucson [1001]
AZ: Yuma [1002]
CA: Aliso Viejo (LA/SD) [1004]
CA: San Diego [1003]
CA: San Francisco [1006]
FL: Miramar [1010]
FL: Orlando [1011]
GA: Atlanta (Kennesaw) [1040]
IL: Chicago [1013]
IN: Indianapolis [1014]
ME: Portland [1035]
MI: Detroit [1015]
MN: Bloomington (Mpls/St Paul) [1016]
NJ: Newark [1017]
NY: Buffalo [1018]
NY: Valley Stream [1019]
PR: San Juan [1038]
TN: Nashville [1048]
TX: El Paso [1021]
TX: Houston [1022]
TX: Irving (Dallas/Ft Worth) [1023]
TX: McAllen [1025]
TX: San Antonio [1046]
WA: Seattle [1007]
Washington, DC [1008]


3.
Applicants are highly encouraged to "Opt-in" for text message reminders!
For applicants who receive a tentative selection offer from Customs and Border Protection, the CBP Hiring Center is offering text messaging reminders. This service will provide you with helpful reminders of scheduled appointments as you move through the pre-employment process. All automated messages are programmed to remind applicants of upcoming appointments (i.e., medical appointment, fitness test reminder, etc.) approximately 3-days out from the appointment dates. Text messaging will not replace any form of official communication, but is intended solely as an added service to reinforce communication.

You may choose to "Opt-in" for this customer service option. Based on conditions set by your mobile carrier, standard text messaging rates may apply which will not be reimbursed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Please check with your carrier to address any potential costs to you to ensure receiving text messaging is an option available to you based on the terms of your service contract. Some carriers may also block incoming "fee generating" text messages or messages from outlying sources and some messages may appear truncated based on limitations imposed by your carrier. Current system constraints with some carriers may not support text messaging service. If you choose to opt-in at this time, you may elect to discontinue this service later by contacting the CBP Hiring Center.

Please select your carrier below. If you do not wish to "Opt In" for text messaging reminders, please choose the last option.
AT&T [0002]
Boost Mobile [0003]
Cricket Wireless [0004]
Sprint [0006]
T-Mobile [0007]
Verizon [0008]
Virgin Mobile USA [0009]
Cellular South [0012]
Centennial Wireless [0013]
Qwest [0015]
Simple Mobile [0016]
TracFone [0017]
Other [0010]
I do NOT opt in to receive text messaging reminders


4.
If you opted in for text messaging reminders, please add you cell phone number below in this format: xxx-xxx-xxxx

If you did not opt in for text messaging reminders, please enter N/A below.


5.
How did you first hear about this position?
Attended an in-person or virtual event or spoke with a CBP recruiter
Referred by a friend or family member
Previous CBP employment experience
Previous CBP job application
USAJOBS.gov search
CBP advertisement on social media or online
CBP advertisement in theater, television, or film
CBP advertisement in print (newspaper, magazine, etc.)
CBP advertisement on outdoor banner or billboard
CBP advertisement on radio
Social media post or video
News story
A job board
Internet Search


6.
Did you participate in a CBP student or internship program?
 Yes, CBP Explorers Program
 Yes, CBP Pathways Program
 Yes, CBP High School Enrichment Program
 No, I did not participate in one of the above CBP internship-student programs.


7.
Are you currently serving or have you served in the United States Military in good standing (to include the National Guard, Reserves, or Coast Guard) or have you been discharged under honorable conditions?

 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


If you choose not to provide a response for the questions, please type "I'd prefer not to answer" in the spaces provided.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Assessment 1
Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙