Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (Hemodialysis)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12792952-25-TP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 27, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Instrument Technician (Hemodialysis), GS-0649-6/7/8 position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.

Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on resume and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references as appropriate. Later steps in selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s):
Basic Requirements:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency. Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.

Do you meet the language requirement mentioned above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Education.
There are no specific educational requirements for this occupation. Education may be substituted for experience only at the GS-4 and GS-5 levels. See the grade requirements part of this standard for information regarding educational substitutions.
Licensure or Certification.
Licensure or Certification is not required for this occupation; however, it is strongly desirable at GS-6 or above as evidence of possession of the essential knowledge, skills, and abilities. For certain functional areas at the higher levels or supervisory assignments, specific certifications appropriate to the specialty are indicated in this standard under "Titles and Certification/Registrations".
For all specialties identified in this standard, Basic and Advanced Cardiac Life Support certifications are desirable. Training which does not result in official certification does not meet this definition.
The above is not required but desirable.
GRADE REQUIREMENTS
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Medical Instrument Technician (Hemodialysis)- GS-6
Experience. At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities
1. Skill in setting up, operating, and performing calibrations as required on a variety of dialysis equipment.
2. Skill in performing and interpreting test results (dialysate chemistries, water treatment testing for contaminates, etc.) including the ability to analyze deviations from the expected norm and responding appropriately.
3. Knowledge of American Association of Medical Instrumentation (AMMI) standards and unit policies as they relate to water treatment.
4. Knowledge of physiological and psychological changes and conditions related to end stage renal disease.
5. Ability to calculate dialysis baths according to the physician's orders per patient by mixing critical concentrates, i.e., calcium, potassium, and bicarbonate.
6. Knowledge of Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS).
Do you meet the above requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Medical Instrument Technician (Hemodialysis)- GS-7
Experience. At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled. This would be experience which provided knowledge the equipment, standard procedures, and typical machine problems and/or patient reactions to treatment. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities
1. Ability to assist the physician in more complex procedures such as central venous catheter insertion.
2. Ability to assist in training patients in home/self-care by teaching components of machine operation including water treatment and monitoring patients for compliance.
3. Ability to act as a mentor or preceptor to lower graded technicians.
4. Ability to analyze deviations from the expected, determine whether the deviations are machine or patient related, and respond according to the findings.
Do you meet the above requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Medical Instrument Technician (Hemodialysis)- GS-8
Experience. At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled. This would be experience which provided knowledge of the more complex procedures, the pharmacology related to this occupation, and knowledge of related acute disorders and diseases and their effects on organs and methods of treatment. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities
1. Knowledge of the hemodialysis process and equipment needed for home/self care including knowledge of common machine problems and repairs to such equipment.
2. Knowledge of the equipment and procedures for peritoneal dialysis.
3. Ability to assist the physician with percutaneous renal biopsies and peritoneal catheter insertion.
4. Ability to provide instruction to dialysis patients in home/self care and in the maintenance of the equipment
5. Ability to provide instruction for physicians, nurses, and other personnel in dialysis procedures, equipment operation and maintenance, etc.
Do you meet the above requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Resumes must be no longer than two pages.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected