Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
HRM-IMP-12795549-KC Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
5. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
6. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
7. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
8. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
9. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: providing planning, financial and technical guidance for the execution of pay and non-pay budgets; monitoring and administering organizational funds, to include annual funding program, allotments, allowances, obligation authorities, reimbursable, and other fund instruments; preparing reports and analyses to be presented during quarterly reviews of assigned organizational units’ annual financial plan and budget execution plan; reviewing, approving/disapproving, or modifying budget requests and creating a budget reflecting the multi-year funding goals of the program; monitoring the cost, schedule, and performance parameters of all assigned contracts; preparing reports/correspondence for submission to management regarding the status of contracts, interagency agreements, internal recurring orders, and other procurement actions.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
10. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: serving as lead or supporting analyst on special projects and analyses covering other areas of MSD Budget responsibility, such as pay funding management, unemployment compensation, and other projects as assigned; working with assigned organizational functions and within the MSD budget team to monitor and report on execution of annual funding against HRM mission priorities to ensure adherence to budget objectives and funding limits; monitoring the cost, schedule, and performance parameters of all assigned contracts; serving as an expert consultant working with program staff to identify program needs to accomplish mission requirements; preparing reports/correspondence for submission to Division management regarding the status of HRM contracts, interagency agreements, internal recurring orders, and other procurement actions.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
11. This vacancy has a local commuting area requirement, as defined below:
The area surrounding the duty station by which people reasonably travel back and forth from home to work; Or
The employee's permanent duty station is located within the reasonable travel area surrounding the duty station of this vacancy; Or if applicable
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for less than 1 year) to another duty location, the permanent duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for more than 1 year) to another duty location, the detailed or temporary duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
Do you meet the local commuting area requirement?
 A. A. Yes, I meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
 B. B. No, I do not meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. In which of the following capacities have you served where you performed work in direct support of one or more components of an operating budget? Please select all that apply.

 A. Federal government financial management occupations in accounting, finance or budget
 B. Program management or administration in the federal government
 C. Occupations where governmental programs are analyzed for appropriation
 D. Other financial management occupations
 E. None of the above
2. I am proficient at using financial software and systems to perform the following functions. Please select all that apply.

 A. Developing proposed budgets
 B. Developing reports on key financial elements for use by management or other decision making authorities
 C. Tracking budget expenditures
 D. Determining whether funded programs are being executed in accordance with authorizations
 E. Determining resource expenditure trends and the need for budget reallocation or re-programming
 F. None of the above
3. I have experience performing work in the following budget processes, Please select all that apply.

 A. Development, formulation, and analysis
 B. Presentation, justification, and defense
 C. Execution, control, monitoring, and reporting
 D. None of the above
4. I have used automated databases or specialized financial data systems to prepare data summaries for inclusion on budget execution reports.

 A. YES
 B. NO
5. Which of the following best describes your experience formulating budgets?

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
6. I have coordinated fiscal year closeouts and reporting on behalf of the budgets, programs, and organizations I have been assigned.

 A. YES
 B. NO
7. I have reviewed budget forecasts, estimates and requests to assure that they meet requirements and standards concerning the following. Please select all that apply.

 A. Adequacy of supporting narrative justification
 B. Conformance with budgetary policy, guidelines, and legal requirements
 C. Consistency with financial objectives
 D. Consistency with program objectives
 E. None of the above
8. Have you applied the principles, practices and methods of budget execution to determine whether obligations, expenditures and operating plans are within funding limitations of the approved budget?

 A. YES
 B. NO
9. I have prepared the following types of financial and statistical reports for management. Please select all that apply.

 A. Status of funds
 B. Actuals versus forecast variances
 C. Obligations and expenses
 D. Budget utilization projections and forecasts
 E. Out year budget requests
 F. Other budget advice
 G. None of the above
10. I have projected fund requirements for the following. Please select all that apply.

 A. Personnel compensation and benefits
 B. Expendable supplies
 C. Travel
 D. Information technology
 E. Service contracts
 F. Communications, rents and utilities
 G. Cooperative agreements, grants, and interagency agreements
 H. Other expenditures
 I. None of the above
11. I have devised appropriate solutions to budgetary issues under the following circumstances. Please select all that apply.

 A. Program conditions of high uncertainty, fluctuation, or change
 B. Strict time constraints/deadlines
 C. Conflicting or ambiguous policy guidance
 D. Conflicts between program needs and regulatory, policy and/or legal requirements
 E. Competing programs or program objectives
 F. None of the above
12. I have monitored, controlled and identified appropriate adjustments to operating budgets for programs or organizations with the following funding sources. Please select all that apply.

 A. Appropriated funds
 B. Fees for products or services, or similar non-appropriated fund sources
 C. Fund sources governed by different fiscal years, financial classifications
 D. None of the above
13. I have analyzed, prepared, monitored, executed and controlled budgets for programs utilizing the following. Please select all that apply.

 A. Appropriated funds
 B. Reimbursable services
 C. Interagency agreements
 D. User fee arrangements
 E. None of the above
14. Based on my analyses of current year operating budgets I have identified requirements for. Please select all that apply.

 A. Reutilizing funds to meet unexpected needs
 B. Opportunities to satisfy unfunded priorities or requirements
 C. The imposition of strict spending controls to avoid budgets overruns
 D. Deferral of acquisitions or obligations pending the receipt of new appropriations, budget authority or funding
 E. None of the above
15. I am proficient at performing the following functions concerning the use and/or management of a relational database. Please select all that apply.

 A. Using macros and/or queries
 B. Developing macros and/or queries
 C. Entering data into the database
 D. Retrieving data from the database
 E. Monitoring data to assure accuracy and completeness
 F. Correcting inaccurate data entries
 G. Developing rules and/or guidelines for data entry
 H. Developing processes for identifying inaccurate data entries
 I. None of the above
16. I have compared current and projected resource utilization rates against authorized resource levels in order to advise management on the status of funds.

 A. YES
 B. NO
17. I have compared and contrasted current and historical budget and projected program needs in order to. Select all that apply.

 A. Determine funding requirements at various program levels
 B. Anticipate funding shortfalls or excesses in current programs
 C. Identify and document new trends in spending
 D. Recommend reprogramming and/or reallocation of funds between programs and budget object classes
 E. None of the above
18. I have used various accounting systems and related documents in order to locate and analyze data pertaining to income, expenditures and budgetary issues.

 A. YES
 B. NO
19. I have provided advice and guidance to program managers, administrators, and/or other management officials on the following types of matters. Please select all that apply.

 A. The format for submission of annual estimates of funding needs
 B. The amounts and types of funds available
 C. The purposes for which money in the budget may be used within legal or other applicable limits
 D. The time frames within which available budget funds or authority must be used
 E. Trends in the rates of obligation and/or expenditure of funds
 F. The effects of budgetary changes on related activities (e.g., purchase of office supplies and equipment, maintenance of buildings and grounds, hiring of personnel, and payment for travel expenses, external funding agencies)
 G. Recommendations to control spending
 H. External funding agencies
 I. None of the above
20. Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience analyzing the utilization of funds, including the timeliness of obligations and expenditures, by your assigned organizations?

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
21. I have identified, analyzed, and resolved the following budgetary problems. Please select all that apply.

 A. Developing alternative methods for funding a program
 B. Formulating budget estimates for programs in which objectives, work process, staffing needs, and funding requirements have changed to the extent that substantial re-budgeting is required each year
 C. Developing and administering budget execution where the changing demand for services requires reutilizing throughout the year
 D. None of the above
22. Check all of the following software categories in which you are able to independently create and modify products and use the software as a tool in performing the tasks required of this position. Please select all that apply.

 A. Word Processing (e.g. Word)
 B. Email
 C. Spreadsheets (e.g. Excel)
 D. Databases (e.g. Access)
 E. Graphics/Presentation Tools (e.g. Power Point)
 F. Query tools and languages
 G. Web browsers/search engines
 H. Web-based reporting software
 I. None of the above
23. I am proficient at performing the following in spreadsheet programs for use in preparing and analyzing budget data. Please select all that apply.

 A. Cell formulas
 B. Macros
 C. Linking spreadsheets
 D. Creating pivot tables
 E. None of the above
24. I am proficient at performing the following administrative functions concerning contracts for the procurement and/or distribution of supplies, personal property, and/or services on behalf of my employer. Please select all that apply.

 A. Certifying availability of funds
 B. Assigning correct accounting and object class codes
 C. Approving payments
 D. Reviewing contractor fund requests/proposals resulting from change orders
 E. Negotiating delivery schedule changes
 F. Monitoring contractors? compliance with existing contracts
 G. None of the above
25. Which of the following best describes your experience using accepted cost and price analysis techniques to determine a negotiation position with vendors for the procurement of supplies, personal property, and or services for your employer?

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
26. I have applied provisions of the following when controlling the execution of a budget. Please select all that apply.

 A. The Anti-Deficiency Act
 B. The Government Performance and Results Act
 C. Regulations and procedures issued by the Financial Management Service
 D. Agency fund control and reporting requirements
 E. Federal Appropriations Law
 F. Budget and Account Manual (BAM)
 G. Appropriations, language and direction
 H. Other internal organizational control guidance
 I. None of the above
27. I am experienced at developing and administering the following. Please select all that apply.

 A. Interagency agreements
 B. Memoranda of understanding
 C. Cooperative Service Agreements (Trust Funds and Reimbursable Agreements)
 D. None of the above
28. Which of the following best describes your experience developing and processing cooperative agreements, interagency agreements, and/or grants?

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
29. I have determined financing adequacy, fiscal control, and equity arrangements for the following. Please select all that apply.

 A. Inter-Agency Agreements
 B. Other
 C. None of the above
30. In which of the following administrative functions have you performed analytical work that required you to research, interpret, and apply provisions of the laws, regulations, and policies that govern them. Please select all that apply.

 A. Cooperative Service Agreements (Trust Funds and Reimbursable Agreements)
 B. Interagency Agreements
 C. Memoranda of Understanding
 D. Other types of agreements
 E. None of the above
31. From the following list of communication skills, please identify those that reflect your strongest capabilities. Please restrict your answers to those skills which you have personally applied at work and/or in academic or volunteer settings. Please select all that apply.

 A. Interact and perform effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments
 B. Work with representatives of outside groups that hold opposing views or positions to resolve issues
 C. Build and sustain working relationships with outside persons in order to obtain information or commitments to taking action
 D. Interact with representatives of outside groups in order to accomplish your employer's goals
 E. None of the above
32. From the following list related to orally presenting information relative to cooperative agreements, interagency agreements, and/or grants, please identify those you have experience performing. Please select all that apply.

 A. Presenting information relative to cooperative agreements, interagency agreements, and/or grants to small groups
 B. Presenting information relative to cooperative agreements, interagency agreements, and/or grants to large groups (20 or more)
 C. Making formal presentations relative to cooperative agreements, interagency agreements, and/or grants to senior management
 D. Providing training to personnel on topics related to cooperative agreements, interagency agreements and/or grants
 E. None of the above
33. Which of the following best describes your experience developing recommendations for improved efficiency, effectiveness, productivity, and/or economy?

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
34. Please indicate which of the following you have experience performing. Please select all that apply.

 A. Presenting technical financial information to small groups
 B. Presenting technical financial information to large groups (twenty or more)
 C. Making formal budget presentations to senior management
 D. None of the above
35. I have been responsible for communicating to senior management on the following budget activities. Please select all that apply.

 A. Reviewing requests for funding in relation to current obligation and expenditures.
 B. Reviewing justifications submitted for equipment for technical adequacy and cost effectiveness.
 C. Performing all aspects of budgetary functions and duties associated with the PPBA (Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Accountability) process from a program perspective.
 D. Makes the necessary adjustment to the budget as a result of higher-level decisions concerning funding.
 E. Formulates and/or monitors the execution of long-range budget forecasts (3 to 5 years or longer), details budget forecasts and plans to fund the implementation of substantive programs and projects.
 F. Plans, advises, and ensures the commitment, execution, obligation, and close-out of appropriated one-year and three-year funds.
 G. Identifies the means and controls of funding execution across the staff and through the fiscal year funding.
 H. None of the above
36. I have been responsible for providing Budget related consultation services for the following activities. Please select all that apply.

 A. Assessing the impact of changes in programs and regulations on, travel, and related expenses on the organizations budget.
 B. Conducting cost analysis, benefits, and identifying trends in obligations and expenditures of funds.
 C. Developing specific objectives and devising new methods and techniques to identify trends and patterns, acquiring information, analyzing data, developing solutions, and presenting findings for which there are no precedents.
 D. Projecting and analyzing the potential effects of budgetary actions on program viability and attainment of program objectives within an organization.
 E. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected