Position Title
Supervisory Transportation Security Officer
Agency
Transportation Security Administration
Announcement Number
EWN-25-12798374-I Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 11, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Displaced Employee?  To be eligible you must meet one or more of the following:
A current (OR former) employee of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) who will be (OR has been) separated through TSA involuntary workforce reduction (IWR) procedures AND I am eligible to be considered for TSA positions for all areas of consideration, for up to one year after the effective date of my involuntary separation; 
A former TSA Transportation Security Officer (TSO) eligible for rehiring priority under the Priority Employment Program (PEP);
An applicant for a Transportation Security Officer (TSO) position who has had my enter-on-duty (EOD) date delayed or offer rescinded due to a workforce reduction or anticipated reduction eligible for priority consideration under the Priority Employment Program (PEP).
If you indicate eligibility for priority consideration and exemption from Area of Consideration restrictions, you must submit a copy of the official notification that supports the eligibility at the time of application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently employed by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA)?

As a current TSA employee, you are strongly encouraged to submit a copy of your most recent non-Award Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your status.

TSA employees who do not submit the SF-50 with their application must document their current TSA position in their resume and may be required to provide the SF-50 document during the selection process.  TSA employees may obtain a copy of their most recent non-Award SF-50 at https://eopf.opm.gov/dhs/.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Referred applicants may be shared with other locations within TSA. Do you authorize the sharing of your name and application materials with other locations? If you respond "No", your name and application materials may only be shared for the position and locations on this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
How did you hear about this opportunity?
1. Please let us know how you heard about this opportunity.
--Select-- 
--Select--
Airport ad
Billboard ad
Career center
Digital banner ad
Email
Facebook
Flyer
Gas station TV ad
Google search
Gym TV ad
Instagram
Job board (e.g. Indeed, ZipRecruiter, LinkedIn, etc.)
Job Fair
LinkedIn
Local TV ad
Magazine ad
News
Newspaper ad
Other streaming or online video ad
Professional organization (e.g. LULAC, NOBLE, SHRM, etc.)
Public transit ad
Radio ad
Referral
Shopping mall ad
Streaming radio ad
Text message
TSA postcard
Twitter
USAJOBS Search or E-mail
VA for VETs, TAP or other military/veteran program
YouTube video ad
None of the Above
Suitability and Conditions of Employment
1. Please indicate whether or not you have been convicted* of any of the offenses listed within the past 10 years. (Note: By responding "Yes" to any of these, you will be removed from consideration for this position.)

*You have a conviction if you plead no contest (nolo contendere), plead guilty, were found guilty, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, to any of the listed disqualifying offenses. The only exceptions are if your guilty plea or conviction has been reversed on appeal, your conviction has been expunged, or you have been pardoned.
Forgery of certificates, false marking of aircraft, and other aircraft registration violations.
Interference with air navigation.
Improper transportation of hazardous material.
Aircraft piracy.
Interference with flight crew members or flight attendants.
Commission of certain crimes aboard aircraft in flight.
Carrying a weapon or explosive aboard aircraft.
Conveying false information and threats.
Aircraft piracy outside the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States.
Lighting violation involving transporting controlled substances. Essentially, this means that if you have been convicted of transporting illegal drugs in a plane without activating the navigation or anti-collision lights you are disqualified.
Unlawful entry into an aircraft area that serves air carriers or foreign air carriers contrary to established security requirements.
Destruction of an aircraft or either a domestic or international aircraft facility. It is a federal crime to use any device, substance or weapon, to intentionally perform an act of violence against any person at an airport or to destroy or seriously damage the facilities of such an airport.
Murder.
Assault with intent to murder.
Espionage.
Sedition (inciting insurrection against lawful authority).
Kidnapping or hostage taking.
Treason.
Rape or aggravated sexual abuse.
Unlawful possession, use, sale, distribution, or manufacture of an explosive or weapon.
Extortion.
Armed or felony armed robbery.
Distribution of, or intent to distribute a controlled substance.
Felony arson.
Felony involving a threat.
Felony involving willful destruction of property.
Felony involving importation or manufacture of a controlled substance.
Felony involving burglary.
Felony involving theft.
Felony involving dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation.
Felony involving possession or distribution of stolen property.
Felony involving aggravated assault.
Felony involving bribery.
Felony involving illegal possession of a controlled substance punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of more than 1 year, or any other crime classified as a felony that the Under Secretary determines indicates a propensity for placing contraband aboard an aircraft in return for money.
Violence at international airports.
Conspiracy or attempt to commit any of the criminal acts listed above.
Interference with security screening personnel.
 A. Yes, I have been convicted* of one or more of the offenses listed above in the last ten (10) years.
 B. No, I have not been convicted* of any of the offenses listed above in the last ten (10) years.
All the information you provide may be verified by a review of the work experience and/or education as shown on your application form, by checking references and through other means, such as the interview process. Any exaggeration of your experience, false statements, or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work.
2. Does the TSA employ any of your relatives?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Please respond whether or not you have been separated (e.g., terminated, removed, or resigned while a proposed termination or removal was pending) from TSA for any of the following reasons within the last three years.

Note: By responding "Yes" to any of these, you will be removed from consideration for this position
3. Were you separated due to unacceptable performance?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Were you separated due to misconduct?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Were you separated due to receiving a negative suitability determination from the Personnel Security Division?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Did you resign after receiving a proposed removal letter?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Requirements
1.

I understand that my Resume must include the following or I may be found ineligible for consideration:

Narrative description of duties for each job entry with start and end dates, including month and year (i.e. 8/2023 - 8/2024 or 8/2024 - present) for work experience.
Number of hours worked in a position (i.e., full-time or part-time) for each job entry. If part-time, state the total number of hours worked per week.
Performance level for federal civilian positions which include pay plan and grade/band (e.g. SV-G or GS-11) for each job entry.
Utilizing the USAJOBS Resume Builder and completing all available fields is strongly encouraged.
 A. Yes, I understand my resume must include the above information and I wish to continue with my application.
 B. I no longer want to continue with my application.
Assessment 1
Please answer all of the questions listed below. Errors or omissions may affect your consideration for employment. Remember that your experience is subject to verification.
Your responses to these statements will be scored and the score you receive will be used as a measure of the degree to which your background matches the qualifications and competencies required for this job. In responding to these questions, you should carefully consider each of these statements and choose the response that best matches your experience level. Your resume must support your self-ratings.

PLEASE NOTE: Your self-ratings will be reviewed. If, after reviewing your resume and any supporting documentation, a determination is made that you have rated yourself higher than is supported by your application materials, your category placement may be adjusted and/or you may be excluded from consideration for this job.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have at least one year of specialized experience in or related to the work of a Transportation Security Officer or Lead Transportation Security Officer at the E band level (GS-8) AND six months of experience as a work leader, team leader, or supervisor in any type of work environment? Experience as a work leader, team leader, or supervisor in any type of work environment is work experience which demonstrates the possession of proficiency, or the potential to develop proficiency, in tasks such as: identifying, distributing, and balancing work load and tasks among employees; training or arranging for training of employees on procedures, use of various electronic equipment, or similar requirements; maintaining records of work accomplishments and administrative information; and resolving simple, informal complaints of employees and referring formal grievances to the appropriate management official.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Which strategies do you use to provide consistent and accurate information to meet objectives? Select all that apply.
 A. Double-check the accuracy of information.
 B. Work as quickly as possible to meet the deadline.
 C. Take time to ensure that no errors are made during all phases of the project.
 D. Evaluate data and metrics.
 E. Ask my supervisor to check my work.
 F. Ask my coworkers or peers to review my work.
 G. None of the above.
3. Which of the following best reflects how you have handled a situation(s) when you observed someone you worked with not complying with rules and regulations?
 A. I have not had experience with this.
 B. I ignored the situation.
 C. I told a coworker.
 D. I reported the situation to a supervisor or leader.
 E. I verbally addressed the individual about rule compliance.
4. Which of the following actions have you performed as a regular part of your job? Select all that apply.
 A. I have held myself accountable for rules, responsibilities, and assigned tasks.
 B. I have held others accountable for rules, responsibilities, and assigned tasks.
 C. I have monitored the progress of projects or goals to ensure objectives were met.
 D. I have performed work in an efficient, organized, and timely manner.
 E. I have managed all aspects of work tasks from start to finish.
 F. None of the above.
5. Which process best represents how you ensure others meet objectives?
 A. I monitor others to ensure all required tasks are completed and mentor as needed.
 B. I monitor others to ensure all required tasks are completed.
 C. I verify documentation for accuracy.
 D. I delegate someone else to monitor others' performance.
 E. I let a supervisor know when tasks are not completed correctly.
 F. I make corrections by redoing the work.
 G. None of the above.
6. Which of the following best describes your experience in meeting your professional responsibilities?
 A. I have worked on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed under supervision and meet assigned milestones and deadlines.
 B. I have worked on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and meet assigned milestones and deadlines.
 C. I have adjusted my use of time to meet changes in priorities and requirements of new and/or unexpected work, and when priorities have conflicted, I resolved the conflicts with the help of a team leader or supervisor.
 D. I have adjusted my use of time to meet changes in priorities and requirements of new and/or unexpected work, and when priorities have conflicted, I resolved the conflicts independently.
 E. None of the above.
7. Which of the following decisions do you have the most experience making? Select all that apply.
 A. I have made decisions when data is limited.
 B. I have made decisions when solutions produce unpleasant consequences.
 C. I have collaborated with others to make a decision.
 D. I have made decisions that only affect me.
 E. I have guided others in making their decisions.
 F. I have made quick decisions under pressure.
 G. I have made decisions that affect many people.
 H. None of the above.
8. Which of the following do you perform regularly when processing information to make a decision? Select all that apply.
 A. Assess surroundings for potential risks.
 B. Analyze information to identify problems, inconsistencies, or trends.
 C. Analyze problems from several perspectives.
 D. Assess the pros and cons of alternative solutions.
 E. Identify solutions that are most likely to sufficiently resolve the problem.
 F. Distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts.
 G. None of the above.
9. Which of the following best describes how you make a decision quickly when minimal information is provided?
 A. I attempt to gather additional information and make a decision based on my experience and reasoning.
 B. I review possible outcomes and base my decision on which outcome I determine to be best.
 C. I make an intuitive decision based on the information provided.
 D. I consider the information provided and I ask for input from a peer or leader before making my decision.
 E. I present the provided information to a peer or leader and have them make the decision.
10. Which of the following statements best reflects your highest level of experience solving problems?
 A. I have no experience solving problems.
 B. I have training in solving problems but have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment.
 C. I have solved problems by encouraging cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus.
 D. I have solved problems by interacting with individuals constructively, achieving cohesiveness, and reaching agreement on complex issues.
 E. I have solved problems by inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and collectively analyzing controversial topics to reach solutions to complex issues.
11. Which of the following activities have you performed? Select all that apply.
 A. Recorded information into a logbook or on a form.
 B. Compiled information related to an incident, disciplinary action, or injury to facilitate completion of a report.
 C. Utilized computer programs to enter or retrieve information.
 D. Created written documents containing narratives.
 E. Reviewed written documents prepared by others.
 F. None of the above.
12. Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience in written communication?
 A. I have edited reports and documents.
 B. I have performed data entry.
 C. I have gathered and researched data to help prepare reports.
 D. I have written various types of reports and documents.
 E. None of the above.
13. Which of the following types of documents have you written? Select all that apply.
 A. Correspondence (e.g., emails, letters)
 B. Technical reports
 C. Management Directives
 D. Incident reports
 E. Daily data logs
 F. Publications (e.g., journal articles, books)
 G. Research papers
 H. Action plans
 I. None of the above.
14. Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience documenting performance?
 A. I have no experience.
 B. I have prepared performance evaluations.
 C. I have prepared and reviewed performance evaluations.
 D. I have assisted others in writing performance evaluations.
15. Choose which experience best represents your highest level of writing.
 A. I have written documents for peers.
 B. I have written documents for supervisors.
 C. I have written formal documents for senior management or executives.
 D. I have written formal documents received by my entire organization (e.g., company newsletter).
 E. I have written formal documents on behalf of my organization.
 F. None of the above.
16. Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in completing multiple tasks with the same deadline?
 A. I work on tasks by completing them one at a time.
 B. I manage multiple tasks with the assistance of others.
 C. I adjust my use of time to manage multiple tasks.
 D. I have mentored others on determining how best to utilize their time.
 E. None of the above.
17. With which of the following activities do you have the most experience? Select all that apply.
 A. Balancing competing deadlines and priorities to ensure goals are met or tasks are completed.
 B. Delegating assignments to others to ensure that goals are met or tasks are completed.
 C. Establishing priorities for multiple projects based on timelines, importance, and urgency of completion.
 D. Rearranging resources, adjusting priorities, or negotiating timelines when managing multiple projects.
 E. Returning to critical tasks and activities after attending to interruptions and/or distractions.
 F. Attending to interruptions or distractions at the expense of completing my tasks.
 G. None of the above.
18. Which of the following processes best describes how you prioritize multiple tasks?
 A. I make a list of all the tasks and work through them until I have completed each one.
 B. I make a list of all the tasks and prioritize them based on importance and length of time to complete.
 C. I combine similar tasks in order to use my time efficiently.
 D. I delegate the tasks that I know others can complete and follow-up to make sure they are completed.
 E. None of the above.
19. When leading an important assignment, which of the following best describes the method you use to manage several tasks?
 A. I have no experience leading important assignments.
 B. I ask a supervisor for guidance and approval on each task.
 C. I ask peers to assist me with completing the tasks.
 D. I prioritize each task before starting.
 E. I delegate each task to other members of the team and oversee the assignment.
20. Which of the following activities have you performed? Select all that apply.
 A. Ensured performance standards, expectations, and goals were met.
 B. Regularly provided feedback and coaching to others.
 C. Planned work assignments and schedules.
 D. Assigned tasks and responsibilities.
 E. Resolved conflicts and differences.
 F. Evaluated the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects.
 G. Provided career development opportunities.
 H. None of the above.
21. Which strategies have you used most often to inspire, influence, and guide others? Select all that apply.
 A. Monitored others to ensure required tasks are completed.
 B. Led by example.
 C. Held others accountable for their actions.
 D. Coached and developed others.
 E. Directed others to comply with established guidelines.
 F. Recommended rewards and incentives.
 G. Provided feedback and support.
 H. None of the above.
22. What leadership experiences do you have? Select all that apply.
 A. I have inspired others towards meeting goals.
 B. I have developed relationships by mentoring and coaching.
 C. I have adjusted my leadership style to support a diverse workforce.
 D. I have led by example by completing assigned tasks.
 E. I have implemented corrective actions.
 F. None of the above.
23. Which of the following represents your usual approach to providing feedback while supervising others?
 A. I provide feedback throughout the task.
 B. I provide immediate individual feedback when needed.
 C. I let the team complete the assignment and then provide feedback.
 D. I provide feedback upon request.
 E. I do not usually provide feedback.
24. When leading a team and the team members have conflicts, which best describes your typical response?
 A. I take charge and provide a resolution.
 B. I defend the member(s) I think are right and try to resolve the conflict.
 C. I let the members work it out amongst themselves.
 D. I present the issue to another peer or leader to address.
 E. I act as a mediator between the members and help them come to a mutually agreeable resolution.
Certification
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
25. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment with the TSA is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected