Position Title
AIRCRAFT ELECTRICIAN
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
IN-12794240-AF-25-069 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 4, 2025 to Sunday, October 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
National Guard
1. Are you currently a member of the Indiana Air National Guard or willing and eligible to join? (NOTE: Air National Guard membership is required for this position. If you have prior service, please submit a copy of your DD-214 with your resume or state your current military grade and status)
 A. Yes, I am an Airman with the Indiana Air National Guard.
 B. No, I am a member of another states National Guard or an INARNG member but willing to join the Indiana Air National Guard.
 C. No, I am a Reservist/IRR or an active duty servicemember and willing to join the Indiana Air National Guard.
 D. No, I have no military status at this time but am willing to join the Indiana Air National Guard.
 E. No, I fall in one of the types of military status mentioned in B, C or D but do not wish to join the Indiana Air National Guard.
2. Are you currently within the military grades/ranks of E3 thru E6?
 A. Yes, I am within the grades/ranks listed above.
 B. No, I am not within the grades/ranks listed above but I have prior service that falls within the ranks above, or I am able to join within the ranks listed above.
 C. No, I am not within the grades/ranks listed above.
3. Prior to appointment, individuals will undergo a background check to validate suitability for employment with the federal government as permitted by law. Items checked include, but are not limited to all criminal history record information, employment history, education and fiscal accountability/responsibility. IAW 5 CFR 302.203, the following, among others, may be included as disqualifying reasons: (1) Dismissal from employment for delinquency or misconduct; (2) Criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct; (3) Intentional false statement or deception or fraud in examination or appointment; (4) Habitual use of intoxicating beverages to excess; (5) Reasonable doubt as to the loyalty of the person involved to the Government of the United States; (6) Any legal or other disqualification which makes the individual unfit for service; or (7) Lack of United States citizenship.
 A. I give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check on me.
 B. I do not give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check and no longer wish to be considered for this position.
4. *PLEASE READ THIS CAREFULLY AS THE FOLLOWING HAS CHANGED
Indiana National Guard (INNG) Federal Technicians will wait 36 months after being selected for a new position before applying for another position within the INNG. If you meet the requirements listed below, you will need to submit a signed Exception to Policy (ETP) memorandum with your application to be considered for the position. If you have questions about applicability, send an email explaining your situation to the HRO Staffing inbox listed below.
If you are a Tenure 0 Temporary employee (your position has a not-to-exceed date), you do not need an ETP memo, you will select No below and proceed with your application.
Did you become a new employee through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months?
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, continue reading.
Did you receive a promotion, reassignment, conversion (to tenure 1, 2, or 3), or a grade reduction through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months? This does not include receiving a temporary promotion.
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, select No below and proceed with your application.
If you require an ETP memorandum, you can download the template here: https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/NGIN-J1HR/SitePages/Technician-Staffing.aspx
The memorandum will be written by you, the employee, and signed by your supervisory chain up to the Director level. Directors and Supervisors will submit the signed memorandum for final review to the HRO Staffing inbox: ng.in.inarng.mbx.hro-staffing-section@army.mil
The Human Resources Officer (HRO) is the final approval for all ETP waivers. If approved, the memorandum will be returned to you and then submitted with your application.
 A. Yes, this applies to me, and I have submitted my ETP memo signed by the HRO.
 B. No, this does not apply to me.
5. Do you have any relatives (as defined below by 5 USC 3110) who are employed with the Indiana National Guard?

Per 5 USC 3110, A public official may not appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement, in or to a civilian position in the agency in which he is serving or over which he exercises jurisdiction or control any individual who is a relative of the public official. An individual may not be appointed, employed, promoted, or advanced in or to a civilian position in an agency if such appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement has been advocated by a public official, serving in or exercising jurisdiction or control over the agency, who is a relative of the individual. Relative is defined as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

Please list relatives names in narrative box below.
6. Do any of the following statuses apply to you?
 A. I have retired from Active Duty or the Active Guard Reserve.
 B. I am planning my Active Duty or AGR retirement.
 C. I have retired from Federal Employment or Civil Service.
 D. None of these apply to me, I have not retired from Active Duty Military or Federal Government employment
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Does your resume support the General Experience criteria below?

Experience or training which has provided a knowledge and skill in locating and tying in the electrical systems with the aircraft armament, electronics, and instrument systems; adjusting and calibrating the components of the various electrical systems; reading and interpreting blueprints, wiring diagrams and schematics.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Does your resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below?
 

Specialized Experience or training installing, maintaining, repairing and modifying electrical systems and major substation components of electrical system. Experience diagnosing malfunctions and determining remedy when complex relationships exists among different electrical system circuits requiring knowledge of all electrical units and systems. Experience making electrical repairs that require the use of precision measuring equipment and common hand tools. Experience in the setup and operation of computerized multiple circuit analyzing equipment in manual, semiautomatic, or automatic mode to run existing and new (not fully debugged) diagnostic programs to test and analyze aircraft electrical circuitry and interconnecting cabling of systems such as navigational computers, radar, and related equipment and to repair discrepancies. Must have at least 12 months of specialized equivalent experience to the next lower grade level.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Please read and respond to all the questions below. For each Competency / Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's), choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.

For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.
3. Do you possess comprehensive knowledge of the integration of electronically controlled electrical and environmental systems with the avionics systems of the applicable aircraft, and a general system knowledge of the hydraulic, fuel, Jet Fuel Starter (JFS), egress and engine control systems and requires the ability to use precision test equipment to accomplish this?
 A. I have no knowledge of this area.
 B. I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 C. I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 D. I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 E. I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.
4. Do you possess extensive knowledge of electrical and electronic theory, principles, formulas, advanced mathematics, fluid mechanics and dynamics? Do you have the ability to apply this knowledge to the specific requirements of the integrated system on their weapon system?
 A. I have no knowledge of this area.
 B. I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 C. I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 D. I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 E. I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.
5. Do you possess the skill to interpret complex drawings, specifications, and schematics of complete systems to recognize the function and interconnections of the various assemblies and troubleshoot the system from the schematic, following signal paths through a complex path of interconnections of components, assemblies, subassemblies, and cable harnesses?
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.
6. Do you possess the knowledge of electronics, a variety of precision test equipment, self-test procedures and technical data containing schematic diagrams, test procedures, and program information, to identify and isolate malfunctions?
 A. I have no knowledge of this area.
 B. I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 C. I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 D. I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 E. I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.
7. Do you possess the ability to diagnose and determine needed repairs for malfunctions in electrically and electronically controlled systems such as the electrical/environmental systems, and digital anti-skid system, where knowledge of the entire system is necessary to interpret error data and trace back through a number of units of the system to locate the discrepancy?
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected