Position Title
Wildland Firefighter Apprentice - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs
Announcement Number
DHA-26-12813381-CBXH-DN Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 9, 2025 to Friday, October 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position is subject to the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 472), which affords employment preference to qualified Native American candidates.  Proof of eligibility, in the form of a completed Verification of Indian Preference, BIA - 4432 Form, must be provided with your application by the closing date to be granted such preference.  

Are you claiming Indian Preference, and submitting your BIA-4432 Form?
 
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4
5


Assessment 1
You are required to carefully answer every question in this questionnaire. If you do not answer all of the questions it can affect your eligibility for this position.


Preference in filling vacancies is given to qualified Indian candidates in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472). Verification of Form BIA-4432 must be submitted with the application if claiming Indian Preference.


1.
Are you submitting Form BIA-4432, Verification of Indian Preference for Employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs, to claim Indian Preference? Note: You must include your Form BIA-4432. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, this is the ONLY Indian Preference Verification Form that will be accepted.
 Yes, I am submitting Form BIA-4432.
 No, I am not claiming Indian preference.


This position has been designated as an Incidental Operator under the Indian Affairs Motor Vehicle Safety Program and requires the incumbent to operate a motor vehicle in order to properly carry out his/her assigned duties but whose principal duties are not operating a motor vehicle and his/her position is not classified as a motor vehicle operator. The incumbent will be required initially and annually to acknowledge and certify possession of a valid state driver's license.


2.
Do you possess a valid State Driver's License?
 Yes, I certify that I possess a valid State Driver’s License.
 No, I do not possess a valid State Driver’s License.


MAXIMUM ENTRY AGE (MEA) RESTRICTION


3.
This position is a primary firefighter position and covered under the special retirement provisions for firefighters subject to maximum entry age and mandatory retirement. In accordance with Public Law 107-27, applicants must meet age and/or service requirements. The maximum entry age is the date immediately preceding your 37th birthday. Select the appropriate statement from the choices below to identify how you meet the maximum entry age legal requirement. Please mark only one response below. (Note: This requirement may be waived only for preference eligible veterans, if proper documentation is provided).

 I am currently under 37 years of age.
 I am currently 37 years of age or older, but I have prior Federal service in a covered primary law enforcement or firefighter position. I have included applicable SF-50's in this application packet to prove I will be eligible to retire on or before the mandatory retirement age.
 I am 37 years of age or older, but I am exempt from the maximum entry age requirement because I am a veterans preference eligible, or I am eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA).
 I am currently 37 years of age or older and the above choices are not applicable to me.


You must meet the experience and/or education requirements. Please note that your answers may be verified against the information you provide in your resume/application and information your references provide. The quality, type, and scope of your experience and/or training must demonstrate that you are fully qualified to perform the duties of the position to be filled. Be sure you describe your background as it relates to the duties of this position since your application or resume must support the response you select. In addition, if qualifying based on education, you must submit a complete, legible copy of your official college or university transcript(s) with your application to document academic achievements and receive credit.


4.
Carefully read the following descriptions. Select one statement that best describes your education and/or experience which demonstrates your ability to work as a GS-03 Wildland Firefighter Apprentice. Make sure your resume supports the response you select. NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must submit a legible copy of your transcripts.
 I have six (6) months of general work experience. I have 6 months of general work experience. This general experience is any work experience or military service that demonstrated the ability to follow directions and to read, understand, and retain a variety of instructions, regulations, and procedures and that otherwise demonstrates the ability to perform or learn to perform the duties of the position.
 I have successfully completed 1 year of related education or training above the high school level (30 semester hours or 45 quarter hours).
 I have a combination of experience as described in A and education as described in B which totals 100% of the requirement; and I will submit a copy of my educational transcripts.
 I have 6 months of appropriate Firefighter Training and/or Firefighter training obtained as part of a high school curriculum, AND I will submit documentation verifying appropriate firefighting training.
 None of the above described my qualifications, but I am eager to learn.


5.
Carefully read the following descriptions. Select one statement that best describes your education and/or experience which demonstrates your ability to work as a GS-04 Wildland Firefighter Apprentice. Make sure your resume supports the response you select. NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must submit a legible copy of your transcripts.
 I have at least 6 months general experience AND 6 months specialized experience. The 6 months of general experience consisted of any work experience or military service that demonstrated the ability to follow directions and to read, understand, and retain a variety of instructions, regulations, and procedures and that otherwise demonstrates the ability to perform or learn to perform the duties of the position; AND 6 months of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-3 level in the Federal Service. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include experience that is directly related to this position, and may include (1) controlling or extinguishing fires as a member of an organized military, industrial, volunteer, or governmental fire department or brigade; (2) forest fire control, prevention, or suppression work; (3) rescue operations; (4) detection, reduction, or elimination of potential fire hazards; (5) operation of fire communications equipment when it requires specialized knowledge of firefighting techniques, equipment, and procedures to prevent and manage fires; (6) controlling hazardous materials incidents and/or (7) developing, implementing, or providing training in fire protection and prevention.
 I have successfully completed 2 years of education above the high school level in an accredited college or university which included at least 60 semester hour or 90 quarter hours in Fire Training, Fire Science, Fire Technology coursework or other directly related fields of study, such as forestry, range management or conservation, or natural resources (except marine fisheries and oceanography).
 I have a combination of experience as described in A and education as described in B which totals 100% of the requirement; and submitted a copy of my transcripts.
 None of the above described my qualifications, but I am eager to learn.


6.
Carefully read the following descriptions. Select one statement that best describes your education and/or experience which demonstrates your ability to work as a GS-05 Wildland Firefighter Apprentice. Make sure your resume supports the response you select. NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must submit a legible copy of your transcripts.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-4 grade level in the Federal Service. Examples of specialized experience work include on-the-line wildland fire experience in forest/range fire control, prevention, or suppression work as a skilled wildland firefighter, utilizing a variety of specialized wildland fire tools and equipment. In addition, such duties may include, but are not limited to (1) controlling or extinguishing fires as a member of an organized military, industrial, volunteer, or governmental fire department or brigade; (2) forest fire control, prevention, or suppression work; (3) rescue operations; (4) detection, reduction, or elimination of potential fire hazards; (5) operation of fire communications equipment when it requires specialized knowledge of firefighting techniques, equipment, and procedures to prevent and manage fires; (6) controlling hazardous materials incidents and/or (7) developing, implementing, or providing training in fire protection and prevention.
 I have successfully completed a 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university (120 semester hour or 180 quarter hours) with major study in Wildland Fire Science, Wildland Fire Training, Wildland Fire Technology, or other related fields of study which included 24 semester hours of coursework such as forestry, range management or conservation, natural resources (except marine fisheries and oceanography); and have submitted a copy of my educational transcripts.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B which totals 100% of the requirement for the 1 year of specialized experience; and have submitted a copy of my educational transcripts.
 I do not have the experience or education described in any of the above statements, but I am eager to learn.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙