Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Outdoor Program/Marina Manager)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
FFR25-1016 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 22, 2025 to Thursday, October 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Outdoor Program/Marina Manager) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Do you posses any of the following?
 Four Year Undergraduate degree in Recreation
 3 years of experience in Recreation showing progressive responsibilities (for example: Recreation Aid, NF-0189-01 to Recreation Assistant, NF-0189-02 to Recreation Specialist, NF-0188-03)
 None of the above


2.
Do you possess a four-year undergraduate degree in Recreation or related field?.
 I have a four-year undergraduate degree in Recreation
 I have a four-year undergraduate degree in an unrelated field
 I have a 3 or less years towards a four-year degree in Recreation or an associate degree
 I have a 3 or less years towards a four-year degree in an unrelated field
 No degree


3.
Describe your experience supervising recreational programs and staff?.
 4+ years supervising multiple recreational programs and staff
 Less than 4 years supervising multiple recreational programs and staff
 3+ years supervising one recreational program and staff
 Less than 3 years supervising one recreational program and staff
 No supervisory experience


4.
Describe your experience in operating and planning Outdoor Recreation Programs and Facilities?.
 5+ years working in outdoor recreation field
 4-5 years working in outdoor recreation field
 3 years working in outdoor recreation field
 1-2 years working in outdoor recreation field
 No experience working in outdoor recreation or related field


5.
Discribe your experience in Marina and Boating Operations.
 5+ years of experience working in the Marina and Boating operations.
 4-5 years of experience working in the Marina and Boating operations.
 3 years of experience working in the Marina and Boating operations.
 1-2 years of experience working in the Marina and Boating operations.
 No experience working in in the Marina and Boating operations.


6.
Describe your experience in Budget and Resource Management, ability to develop and manage operating budgets, including income and expense tracking for outdoor recreational and marina programs.
 5+ years of experience working within DoD, MWR, or government-funded programs.
 4-5 years of experience working within DoD, MWR, or government-funded programs
 3 years of experience working within DoD, MWR, or government-funded programs
 1-2 years of experience working within DoD, MWR, or government-funded programs
 No experience working within DoD, MWR, or government-funded programs.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙