Position Title
Occupational Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12780211-25-SR Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 28, 2025 to Thursday, September 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Basic Requirement - Experience and Education.

Do you have one of the following:

Education and/or Experience.
The individual must meet at least one of the following requirements below:
Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. OR
Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master's or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. OR
Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
Individuals must be a graduate of a degree program in occupational therapy approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations. This is inclusive of an internship (supervised fieldwork experience required by the educational institution). ACOTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. Degree programs may be verified by contacting the American Occupational Therapy Association website or at their office address: American Occupational Therapy Association, P.O. Box 31220, Bethesda, MD 20824-1220.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Basic Requirement - Certification.

Do you possess the following:
A current National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) certification as an OT.
Exceptions for the Graduate Occupational Therapist
OT graduates from an approved occupational therapy program [who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements,] but who do not possess NBCOT certification and/or state [licensure], may be [appointed, pending certification and/or licensure,] as a graduate OT [on a full-time temporary appointment] not-to- exceed two years under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2).
Graduate OTs may only be appointed at the GS-9 grade level and may not be promoted/converted to the GS-11 level until licensure and/or certification is obtained. For grades levels at or above the developmental GS-11 grade level, the OT must be certified and licensed.
 A. Yes, I have a current National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) certification as an OT.
 B. I meet the exception of being an OT graduate from an approved occupational therapy program [who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements,] but who do not possess NBCOT certification and/or state [licensure], and may be [appointed, pending certification and/or licensure,] as a graduate OT [on a full-time temporary appointment] not-to- exceed two years under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2).
 C. No, I do not possess any of the above to meet the certification requirement
3. Basic Requirement - Licensure.

Do you possess either a full, current, and unrestricted state license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia?

Exceptions for the Graduate Occupational Therapist
OT graduates from an approved occupational therapy program [who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements,] but who do not possess NBCOT certification and/or state [licensure], may be [appointed, pending certification and/or licensure,] as a graduate OT [on a full-time temporary appointment] not-to- exceed two years under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2).
Graduate OTs may only be appointed at the GS-9 grade level and may not be promoted/converted to the GS-11 level until licensure and/or certification is obtained. For grades levels at or above the developmental GS-11 grade level, the OT must be certified and licensed.
 A. Yes, I possess either a full, current, and unrestricted state license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.
 B. I meet the exception of being an OT graduate from an approved occupational therapy program [who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements,] but who do not possess NBCOT certification and/or state [licensure], and may be [appointed, pending certification and/or licensure,] as a graduate OT [on a full-time temporary appointment] not-to- exceed two years under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2).
 C. No, I do not possess any of the above to meet the licensure requirement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Basic Requirement - Physical Requirements.

Are you physically, mentally, and emotionally fit to perform the physical requirement duties of an Occupational Therapist listed below?

Heavy lifting, 45 pounds and over, Use of fingers, both hands required, Reaching above shoulder, Walking (8 hours), Standing (8 hours), Both legs required (1 prosthetic), Far vision correctable in one eye to 20/20 and to 20/40 in the other, Ability to distinguish basic colors, Ability to distinguish shades of colors, Hearing (Aid permitted), and mental and emotional stability. Will meet and maintain physical and drug test program requirements for the position as required.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Basic Requirement - English Language Proficiency.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Specialized Experience - GS-9 Occupational Therapist

Do you have the following:

Education, Experience, or Licensure.
None beyond the basic requirements.
Assignment. Individuals assigned at the GS-9 grade level serve as OT practitioners in a career development position, progressively expanding their ability to provide assessment and treatment interventions for a wide range of human function systems. The entry-level therapist has a basic foundation of OT and generally practices independently. OTs at this level typically have guidance from more experienced therapists. OTs that are not licensed must practice under the supervision of a licensed OT.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Specialized Experience - GS-11 Occupational Therapist

Do you have the following:

Education, Experience, or Licensure.
Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level and directly related to the position being filled;
OR
Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field;
OR
Doctorate in occupational therapy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs)- GS 11

In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of occupational therapy practice.
Ability to administer/interpret evaluation findings to develop and coordinate intervention plans, including goals and methods of treatment.
Ability to implement intervention plans directly or in collaboration with others.
Skill in monitoring an individual's response to interventions and modify treatment plans and reevaluating as indicated.
Ability to communicate and or collaborate with patients, family members, caregivers, interdisciplinary professionals and/or other individuals verbally and in writing.
Knowledge of health and safety regulations to minimize risk in the provision of patient care and the environment of care.
Knowledge of applicable regulations governing documentation, reimbursement and workload entry in accordance with established professional practice.
Assignment. OTs at this grade level practice independently and are responsible for the assessment of functional and occupational roles using standardized tools. The OT modifies standardized and non-standardized evaluation tools. OTs select and provide direct occupational therapy interventions and procedures with routine complexity to enhance safety, wellness, performance in activities of daily living (ADL); and instrumental activities of daily living (IADL), education, work, play, leisure, and social participation. Occupational therapists require guidance with higher complexity conditions. OTs demonstrate an understanding of the theories of treatment in occupational therapy and their proper application through the use of activity analysis, behavioral intervention, frame of references, and therapeutic procedures. They are assigned to all program areas within VHA and provide professional, independent occupational therapy services

Do you possess the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Specialized Experience - GS-12 Occupational Therapist

Do you have the following:

Education, Experience, or Licensure.
Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at the GS-11 grade level and directly related to the position being filled.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) - GS 12

In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of occupational therapy principles and techniques consistent with current clinical standards based on OT theory and evidence-based practice. 7 Knowledge is inclusive of physical, occupational, cognitive, and psychosocial functional deficits.
Ability to collaborate and communicate orally and in writing with all internal and external stakeholders.
Ability to use critical analysis, clinical reasoning, and creativity to independently solve complex problems related to adapting and modifying assessments, treatment plans, activities, and procedures to meet the needs of patients.
Skill in procuring, fabricating, adjusting, adapting, and modifying orthoses, splints, and adaptive equipment for activities of daily living (inclusive of durable medical equipment).
Ability to conduct OT related in-service and clinical training.
Assignment. OTs at this level practice independently and are responsible for comprehensive assessment of functional and occupational roles using standardized and non-standardized evaluation tools. OTs select and provide direct occupational therapy interventions and procedures with varying degrees of complexity to enhance safety, wellness, and performance in ADL, instrumental IADL, education, work, play, leisure, and social participation. OTs demonstrate a full professional understanding of the theories of treatment in occupational therapy and their proper application through the use of activity analysis, behavioral intervention, frame of references, and therapeutic procedures. They are assigned to all program areas within VHA and provide professional, independent occupational therapy services. OTs at this level may be given assignments in any area where advanced specialized knowledge is not required on a recurring basis due to the patient population served and complexity of the facility and/or treatment area. Individuals may perform ancillary assignments, including program management duties on an occasional basis, where the complexity and amount of work is not substantial (less than 25% of the duty time).

Do you possess the above listed Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected