Position Title
Lifeguard
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-015 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 27, 2025 to Wednesday, September 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a current valid Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation for the Professional Rescuer and Healthcare Providers or equivalent; First Aid Certification; and Lifeguard Certification? (MUST attach copies of all current valid certifications for consideration)
 Yes
 No


2.
Which of the following certifications do you have (check all that apply)?

 Lifeguard Instructor Certification
 Water Safety Instructor Certification
 Certified Pool Operator
 American Red Cross Small Craft Safety Training
 None of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have performing lifeguarding duties, such as supervising swimmers, applying first aid, enforcing safety rules, and performing water rescues as necessary?
 I have 3+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 2 to 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in testing pool chemicals, documenting results and adjusting imbalances as needed?

 I have 3+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 2 to 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙