Position Title
Electronics Technician
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL250449136915HD Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
10
11
Resume Length Pilot Acknowledgement
1. The Job Opportunity Announcement (JOA) states that resumes should be limited to 5 pages. If more than 5 pages are submitted, only the first 5 pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications. (NOTE: You may select either response A or B to acknowledge; this question serves only as a reminder of the notice on the JOA).
 A. I understand that I may submit my resume in any format of my choosing, however, if my submitted resume is over 5 pages, only the first 5 pages will be reviewed to determine eligibility/qualifications.
 B. I acknowledge the statement in response ‘A’.
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position has been designated "Mission Essential". In the event of severe weather conditions or other such emergency type situations (natural or man-made disaster) the incumbent is required to report to work or remain at work as scheduled to support mission operations. Are you willing and able to report to work or remain at work under adverse conditions to obtain and maintain this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Electronics Technician position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Electronics Technician at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-08 grade level in the Federal service which includes; Experience assisting with the installation and maintenance of electronic systems; Experience resolving a variety of technical problems related to electronic systems; Experience assisting with the configuration of electronic system components, or Experience operating and maintaining a wide range of electronic systems and equipment.
 B. I have successfully completed two full years (i.e., 36 semester hours) of graduate level education in a field directly related to the work of the position, such as engineering, physical science, technology, or mathematics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year and I have some graduate education (directly related to the occupation) but less than required in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that meet and the total is at least 100%. To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 9. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Electronics Technician at the GS-10 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes; Experience in automation and configuration of industrial control systems equipment, Experience installing computers, routers, network switches and other hardware, Experience updating or repairing existing electronic systems and troubleshooting problems with hardware, or Experience developing and maintaining stand-alone network topography.
 B. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.
3. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Electronics Technician at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-10 grade level in the Federal service which includes Experience in the operation, integration, repairing, or maintenance of a wide variety of complex electronic systems, Experience with the set up and operation pf specialized or standard test equipment to diagnose, test, or analyze the performance of electronic components, assemblies, or systems, Experience with interpretation of diagrams, schematic drawings, or engineering instructions for assembling electronics units, and Experience applying theories, techniques, or applications of electricity, advanced analog and digital electronics, and computer/electronics technology.
 B. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.
4. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected