Position Title
Maintenance Worker (HVAC)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLADSN-25-12795915-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 5, 2025 to Sunday, September 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
4. Do you possess an EPA Universal certification? Incumbent must be EPA Certified in the repair of HVAC and refrigeration equipment. Certification is required for all air conditioning mechanics who open and service refrigeration and air conditioning equipment or are otherwise responsible for same, as part of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), no venting rule. After November 14, 1994, it is illegal for anyone to work on air conditioning equipment unless they are EPA certified, Regulation No. 40 CFR, Part 82.161. Persons who maintain, service, or repair low and high pressure equipment as described in C82.161, (a) 1, (a) 2, (a) 3, must be properly certified as universal technicians. YOU MUST SUBMIT A COPY OF YOUR CERTIFICATION. FAILURE TO SUBMIT PROOF OF CERTIFICATION WILL RESULT IN YOU BEING RATED INELIGIBLE.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position. YOU CAN ONLY SELECT ONE RESPONSE. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS QUESTION WILL RESULT IN YOU BEING RATED INELIGIBLE.

 A. I independently perform the more complex duties, such as: Operate entire heating boiler and domestic units and systems in order to isolate problems and maintain operation of structures such as dormitories, recreation facilities, residential housing and remote buildings requiring individual heating systems; Perform routine maintenance on small electric motors, feed pumps and valves, including replacing seals, bearing and valves.
 B. I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled on my own initiative and receive help from my supervisor on more complex duties, such as: Operate the entire heating boiler system in order to isolate problems and maintain operation of the system; Perform routine maintenance, test, replace and install heating components.
 C. I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled but under close supervision, such as assist with operating a heating boiler system in order to isolate problems and maintain operation of the system.
 D. My experience is not reflected in the above statements.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected