Position Title
Supervisory Immigration Services Assistant
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12807084-CROHQ-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Wednesday, October 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current DHS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you wish to be considered as a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who meets one of the following criteria?
 In a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)
OR
With an excepted service agency but can be hired into the competitive service because you meet the criteria of a DHS Interchange Agreement. Additional information about current Interchange Agreements can be found here. 
Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you wish to be considered as a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who meets one of the following criteria?I have held, or currently hold either: 
 A permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised.
OR
An appointment with an excepted service agency but can be hired into the competitive service because I meet the criteria of a DHS Interchange Agreement, with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised. Additional information about current Interchange Agreements can be found here. 
Note: If your position referenced above is not on the GS pay scale, your pay must be at or above the representative rate (step 04) of the full performance level of this position. 

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block 34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 Yes
 No


4.
The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former DHS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606.
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Saint Paul, MN
 C. Reno, NV
 D. Oklahoma City, OK
 E. Dallas, TX
 F. Edinburg, TX
 G. El Paso, TX
 H. San Antonio, TX


2.
I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 Yes
 No


3.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 Yes
 No
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.


4.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


5.
I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
12.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in solving complex problems in the workplace.
 I have solved difficult problems in the workplace by surrounding myself with others who are strong in problem solving and learning from them.
 I am positive in my approach and reframe the problem or issue to come up with new solutions.
 I have solved complex problems in the workplace by focusing on details, thinking analytically, and offering practical solutions that evaluate the potential costs, resources, and barriers to a successful solution.
 I have identified problems in the workplace but have no experience solving complex problems in the workplace.


13.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to an issue or situation in which the resolution was not obvious?
 I gathered basic information about the situation and took the issue to a supervisor for help.
 I researched the situation to develop alternatives within guidelines and collaborated with a supervisor to resolve it.
 I researched and resolved the issue independently, then briefed my team or supervisor on the action taken.
 None of the above.
 I developed a recommended solution based on my research of the situation and guidelines and sought confirmation/approval from my supervisor before proceeding.


14.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience addressing issues or concerns related to the delivery of technical customer services?
 I reported customer service issues to the appropriate staff for resolution.
 I collaborated with staff on customer requests to resolve issues.
 I developed new methods, approaches and procedures to improve customer services.
 I independently resolved customer support requests across a wide variety of information technology areas (e.g., platforms, operating systems, applications, and desktop configurations).
 I completed education and/or training related to providing technical customer services, but do not have professional experience.
 I have no experience, training, or education related to technical customer services.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


15.
Have you updated existing policies and procedures for a program or office based on new or changing legislation, regulations, and policies?
 Yes
 No


16.
Select the activities you have performed to ensure the data integrity of electronic systems.
 A. Reviewed electronic forms (i.e., Immigration Benefits, Personnel Requests) for completeness
 B. Verified accuracy of data entered
 C. Updated databases with new/revised information (i.e., templates, additional steps in current process)
 D. Created queries to facilitate data review
 E. Conducted database searches to identify potential issues
 F. None of the above


17.
Which statements describe your experience preparing data and reports?
 I assisted senior staff by collating and compiling data from multiple sources and produce reports that are disseminated throughout the organization.
 I use the functions of a spreadsheet to develop reports based upon a business need or requirement.
 I review information contained within a spreadsheet or database to verify its accuracy or conformance with agency/organizational standards.
 I enter information into spreadsheets or databases that is used to create recurring data reports for management.
 None of the above.


18.
Select the tasks you have performed to maintain information in record tracking systems.
 A. I analyzed various systems and databases to ensure the information was accurate.
 B. I updated records within electronic systems and databases.
 C. I provided feedback to system developers and system personnel to improve efficiency of record management.
 D. I implemented protocols to accurately maintain a record tracking system.
 E. None of the above.


19.
Which types of software have you independently used to organize information?
 A. Word Processing (e.g., Microsoft Word)
 B. Email (e.g., Outlook)
 C. Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel)
 D. Databases (e.g., Access)
 E. Graphics/Presentation Tools (e.g., Power Point)
 F. Project Management Tools (e.g., Microsoft Project)
 G. Collaboration Tools (e.g., SharePoint, Google Docs)
 H. None of the above


20.
Which activities have you performed to assess the accuracy of case file contents?
 A. Identified missing information/documentation
 B. Identified inconsistencies in case file contents
 C. Identified any potential fraudulent documentation
 D. Ensured documentation was legible
 E. Ensured copies of all required correspondence were in the file
 F. Ensured all Personal Identifiable Information (PII) was properly stored
 G. Ensured there were no unnecessary PII in case file
 H. None of the above


21.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience reviewing, processing, and approving Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act (PA) cases?
 I have no experience, training, or education related to processing FOIA/PA requests.
 I completed education and/or training related to FOIA/PA cases, but do not have professional experience.
 I applied FOIA/PA guidance to complete FOIA/PA requests within the regulated time frames.
 I answered questions from customers on how to submit FOIA/PA requests.
 I conducted audits of completed FOIA/PA cases to ensure accuracy and timeliness.


22.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 I have created strategies to make high quality decisions regarding organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 My work has allowed engagement in defining criteria to direct others in developing platforms for decisions while organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 I consistently support others within the organization to develop techniques to serve as precedents and future best practices in organizing or managing projects to meet deadlines.
 I do not meet any of the options provided.


23.
Select the tasks you have performed to manage team assignments.
 A. Set expectations (i.e., standards, deadlines) for team/individual performance
 B. Executed an established operating/project budget
 C. Established work schedules`
 D. Assigned tasks
 E. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy
 F. Provided feedback to team members/employees on completed work
 G. Reported team progress to senior management
 H. Created analysis of the workload to assist with performance measurements
 I. None of the above


24.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing management-related activities in a non-supervisory capacity?
 I served as an official Point of Contact (POC) on an inter-office project, managing the project and reporting directly to a supervisor/manager.
 I directed the workflow within a team.
 I drafted Standard Operating Procedure training materials for review.
 I recommended changes to a process based on operational needs.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙