Position Title
Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic
Agency
United States Army Installation Management Command
Announcement Number
MCFU259873411906HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 14, 2025 to Friday, August 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 315. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires incumbent to work an on-call work schedule to respond to after-hours emergencies. This may include, evenings, nights, weekends, and holidays. Are you willing to work an on-call work schedule to respond to after-hours emergencies. This may include, evenings, nights, weekends, and holidays?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic duties without more than normal supervision.

 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic tasks. I am skilled in overhauling, modifying, and relocating equipment on various industrial and special purpose air-conditioning and cooling unit systems to include centrifugal chiller, air-conditioning (i.e., temperature and humidity control) and refrigeration (reach-in and walk-in refrigerators, ice-makers) equipment; and special purpose equipment/facilities such as humidity chambers, chilled water systems, and central energy plants. I am skilled in installing fuse and overload protection, conduits, wiring, thermostats, and humidity controls. I am skilled in repairing air conditioning field units and/or truck mounted units. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic tasks. I am skilled in modifying and relocating equipment on various industrial or special purpose air-conditioning and cooling unit systems to include centrifugal chiller, air-conditioning (i.e., temperature and humidity control) or refrigeration (reach-in and walk-in refrigerators, ice-makers) equipment; and special purpose equipment/facilities such as humidity chambers, chilled water systems, or central energy plants. I am skilled in repairing air conditioning field units and/or truck mounted units. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform common Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic tasks. I can repair and recognize the cause of faulty equipment on various industrial and/or special purpose air-conditioning and cooling unit systems. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic tasks or I have received training on selecting the proper tools for repair of a variety of domestic and commercial refrigeration and air conditioning units.
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.
This position has selective placement factor which must be met prior to employment and for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. This position requires the incumbent to possess and maintain a chlorofluorocarbon chemicals (CFC) certification type Universal as required by section 608 of the Clear Air act, 1990 EPA mandatory technician certification. Do you now possess a chlorofluorocarbon chemicals (CFC) certification type Universal as required by section 608 of the Clear Air act, 1990 EPA mandatory technician certification?
(NOTE: You must attach a copy of your CFC certification type Universal to your application package for verification).

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected