Position Title
Library Technician
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12827051 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 30, 2025 to Wednesday, November 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Library Technician position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.



1.
Must have a minimum of 1 year specialized experience in a library that provides specific knowledge of library rules, policies, and procedures for circulation and technical service.

 Yes I have documented the minimum experience meeting the above requirements
 No I haven’t documented the minimum experience meeting the above requirements


2.
How many years of documented experience do you have with creating and implementing family centered library programs:
 Two plus years in a DoD library
 Two plus years in any other federal agency or civilian library
 One to two years a DoD library
 One to two years in any other federal agency or civilian library
 Less than one year in a DoD facility, any other federal agency or civilian library


3.
What knowledge of the following programs are you proficient in using (mark all that apply):
 A. Microsoft Word
 B. Microsoft Office
 C. Excel
 D. Power point
 E. None of the Above


4.
What knowledge of the following policies/procedures are you proficient in using (mark all that apply):

 A. Library data bases
 B. Library data sources
 C. Library policies
 D. Library procedures
 E. Library cataloging/processing materials
 F. Library interrelationships
 G. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙