Position Title
Tools and Parts Attendant
Agency
U.S. Army Reserve Command
Announcement Number
SDDE254963576521HWR2 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Thursday, July 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. This position requires membership in the US Army Reserve (USAR). If you are not willing or are ineligible to join the USAR, please do not apply to this announcement. If selected, you MUST be or become a member of the Selected USAR. Generally, retired military service members are not eligible for Selected USAR membership. Are you currently a member of the Selected USAR and are willing to maintain membership or are you willing to obtain and maintain membership in the Selected USAR?

 A. Yes, I have, or am willing to obtain and maintain Selected USAR membership.
 B. No, I do not have, nor am I willing to obtain and maintain Selected USAR membership.
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Tools and Parts Attendant position with the Department of Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Tools and Parts Attendant duties without more than normal supervision.
 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex operations of a tools and parts room. I am skilled in determining, identifying, and selecting tools and parts described by users for intended use; recommending possible substitutes and interchangeable items; determining work sequences, methods, procedures, and techniques for setting up and shifting storage locations and determining when tools and equipment should be routed to appropriate shops for test, repair or calibration. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of operations of a tools and parts room. I am skilled in determining, identifying, and selecting tools and parts described by users for intended use; recommending possible substitutes and interchangeable items; determining methods, procedures, and techniques for setting up and shifting storage locations and determining when tools and equipment should be routed to appropriate shops for possible repairs. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform common operations of a tools and parts room. I can determine, identify, and select tools and parts described by users for intended use; determine methods and techniques for setting up and shifting storage locations and determine when tools and equipment should be routed to appropriate shops for possible repairs. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple operations of a tools and parts room. I have received training on identification of tools and parts for repairs; and proper procedures for storage of tools and equipment.
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected