Position Title
Clinical Expanded Function Dental Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSS-12811239-26-TC Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 3, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Citizenship. Citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified candidates). Are you a United States Citizen?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you certified by the Dental Assisting National Board (DANB), (please include your certificate with your application)?

 Yes
 No


4.
Experience and Education- Do you meet the basic experience or education or a combination of experience and education?
a) Experience. Six months experience that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work or provides familiarity with the work.
OR
b) Education. Successful completion of a 1-year dental assistant program accredited by the American Dental Association's Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA).
c) Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.

 Yes
 No


5.
Certification - Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75. Essentially, they must have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and be certified as radiographers in their field. Do you meet one of the following Provisions for Certification of Radiologic Competence?
(a) Successful completion of the Dental Radiation Health and Safety Examination administered by the Dental Assisting National Board, Inc. OR
(b) Successful completion of the Principles and Practice of Dental Radiology and Radiographic Safety courses and examinations developed by the Assistant Under Secretary for Health for Dentistry. OR
(c) Successful completion of a radiation health and safety program or examination approved by a state board of dentistry or the Department of Defense (DoD).]
NOTE: Documentation of all required certification must be submitted with application.

 Yes
 No


Please answer if you have the required certificates.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Are you basic life support (BLS) certified (please include your certificate with your application)?

 Yes
 No


Please answer the below regarding your specialized experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Specialized Experience: Do you meet the 1 year of specialized experience at the GS-6 Full Performance Level (Next Lower Grade) as well as the GS-7 Clinical Expanded Function Dental Assistant Level KSA's?  If so, is this experience reflected in your resume in detail and does your resume demonstrate the required Knowledge, Skills and Abilities outlined below?

This position is a GS-7 Clinical Expanded Function Dental Assistant is above the Full Performance Level and REQUIRES a DANB certification.

The specialized experience and KSA's must be reflected and demonstrated in your resume.  In addition, certification documentation must be submitted.

Specialized Experience for GS-6:  The ability to perform full range of duties with some independence in assigned specialties, with indirect supervision from the lead dental assistant, dental assistant supervisor or treating dentist.  Assignments at this level include, but are not limited to: using the concepts of four-handed dentistry; assists with specialty procedures including oral surgery, periodontal therapy, endodontic, prosthodontic and implant placement and restoration; anticipates surgeons/specialists needs at each stage of treatment; take preliminary impressions; selects and manipulates a variety of gypsums and waxes; pours, trims and evaluates the quality of diagnostic casts; fabricates custom trays.  In addition to this specialized experience, the incumbent must demonstrate the following:
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA's).
-Ability to identify normal oral anatomy.
-Advanced knowledge of instruments, materials, and standardized dental procedures used in all phases of restorative, surgical, endodontic and periodontal care and procedures.
-Ability to monitor and perform basic interpretation of vital signs.
-Ability to independently provide procedure-specific patient education and appropriate referral of patient concerns to treating dentist.
-Ability to capture standard and special dental images of good diagnostic quality in traditional or digital formats.
-Ability to perform maintenance on dental equipment used for routine and specialty dentistry.
-Ability to enter and retrieve data utilizing electronic dental records.
-Ability to perform dental assistant-appropriate laboratory procedures

 Yes
 No


8.
The GS-7 Clinical Expanded Function Dental Assistant must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to a GS-6 dental assistant.  In addition, the incumbent must demonstrate the following KSAs below in their resume. 
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities
-Ability to perform dental assisting expanded functions.
-Comprehensive working knowledge of advanced imaging techniques in order to provide instruction (e.g. cone beam, cephalometric, advanced panoramic imaging, TMJ, etc)

Are these KSAs demonstrated clearly in your resume or provided in a separate document?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙