Position Title
CUSTOMS LIQUIDATOR (DRAWBACK)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO-DE-12788275-PKL Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. Newark, NJ
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
3. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
5. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
7. Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following questions will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?

 A. I have at least one year of experience as a Drawback Specialist, GS-1894-5 (or higher grade level), with the federal government.
 B. I have at least one year of specialized experience in analyzing customs documents; applying customs laws, regulations, and procedures; interpreting customs requirements; or similar experience involving determinations of rates of duty, classification of merchandise, entry requirements, manufacturing records, export documentation, and accounting records.
 C. I have successfully completed one full year of graduate education in an appropriate discipline from an accredited college or university. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate education in an appropriate discipline and experience as described in A or B above, the total of which equals 100%. (To find more details in how to compute percentages in the announcement, look under the Qualification Statements Heading). I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 E. I have successfully completed all of the requirements for a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university and claim eligibility for superior academic achievement based on one of the following; a grade point average of a 3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale, class standing in the upper third of my graduating class or major subdivision, or membership in a national scholastic honor society. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 F. I do not possess the experience or education described above.
2. Which of the following statements best describes your experience and/or education?

 A. I have at least one year of experience as a Drawback Specialist, GS-1894-7 (or higher grade level), with the federal government.
 B. I have at least one year of specialized experience reviewing and making decisions on drawback claims of average difficulty and complexity, reviewing company records on-site to establish if goods meet eligibility requirements and to verify the adequacy of a company’s drawback system, and presenting assigned portions of seminars and other outreach efforts to explain drawback eligibility and requirements.
 C. I have successfully completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education, a master’s degree, a J.D or L.L.B in an appropriate discipline from an accredited college or university. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 D. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate education in an appropriate discipline and experience as described in A or B above, the total of which equals 100%. (To find more details in how to compute percentages in the announcement, look under the Qualification Statements Heading). I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 E. I do not possess the experience or education described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Indicate the extent to which you have reviewed and verified drawback claims to ensure compliance with drawback laws and regulations.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed drawback claims to obtain necessary signatures and certifications.
 C. I have experience reviewing drawback claims for drawback privileges and have knowledge of drawback provisions for ensuring necessary signature and certification.
 D. I have extensive experience reviewing drawback claims for drawback privileges and for ensuring compliance with laws, completeness, and timely submission.
4. Have you reviewed documentation supporting drawback claims for completeness, timeliness, proper authorization, and correction?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Indicate the extent to which you have traced imported merchandise through to exportation to ensure that a clear record exists.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted in tracing imported merchandise through to exportation.
 C. I have had primary responsibility for tracing imported merchandise through to exportation using manufacturers' and other claimants documentation.
6. Have you ensured that merchandise, for unused merchandise claims, was unused in the United States?

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of a supervisor or other more senior individual, I have reviewed merchandise associated with unused merchandise claims.
 C. I have independently ensured merchandise, for unused merchandise claims, was unused in the United States.
 D. I have overseen the review of unused merchandise claims and held the overall responsibility for ensuring the merchandise was unused in the United States.
7. Indicate the extent to which you have presented information to all levels of employees and management.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have interacted with others informally in a work setting.
 C. I have notified supervisors, managers, or offices orally of decisions, problems, or further actions needed. In addition, I have informally explained the organization's programs or services to others.
 D. I have given formal presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings, and acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 E. I have given formal presentations of technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
8. Indicate the extent to which you have developed and maintained effective working relationships (liaison) with individuals internal and external to your work group, office, and organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in joint task forces/teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive long-term relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, and plan joint task force/team projects.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience in responding to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have adapted to minor or temporary changes affecting my own assignments or work schedule by rescheduling work or refocusing my efforts.
 C. I have rearranged some priorities and rescheduled a significant amount of work to accommodate changes in resources or goals. I have recommended new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
 D. I have rearranged virtually all work priorities and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks. I have chosen or developed new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
10. Select the choice which best describes the extent to which you have prepared correspondence and other documents.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have prepared routine correspondence and drafted responses to requests for information. I have edited the non-technical writing of others.
 C. I have prepared project status briefings, management reviews, management reports, and conference materials.
 D. I have written complex materials, such as scientific/technical reports, legal briefs, journal articles, or new laws/regulations, which include graphs, tables, appendices, references, etc.
11. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of the Automated Commercial System (ACS) related to liquidation claims.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have basic knowledge of the major ACS modules and a basic understanding of ACS design, work flow, and document flow relevant to liquidation claims.
 C. I have thorough knowledge of ACS modules and knowledge of work and document flow relevant to liquidation claims.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of ACS modules related to liquidation claims. I have analyzed ACS work and document flow and have referred ACS problems for correction.
12. Indicate the extent to which you have interpreted and applied laws, regulations, legal decisions, and policies.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed laws, regulations, and policies for use by other decision makers but I have not interpreted them.
 C. I have interpreted laws, regulations, and policies and made recommendations to resolve policy issues.
 D. I have interpreted and applied laws, regulations, and policies to resolve policy issues or establish new procedures.
13. Select the choice that best describes your knowledge of and ability to apply Customs laws, regulations, policies, and procedures related to the control, entry, and export of merchandise.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have limited, basic knowledge of Customs laws, regulations, policies, and procedures regarding the entry/export of merchandise.
 C. I have a working knowledge of Customs laws, regulations, policies, and procedures and have made recommendations on penalties and sanctions related to merchandise.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of Customs laws , regulations, and policies and I have implemented procedure changes as well as made decisions on penalties and sanctions related to merchandise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected