Position Title
Physical Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSY-12816034-26-MS Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Thursday, January 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Grand Forks, ND
 B. Minot, ND


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


5.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


6.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


7.
Please indicate the location(s) you are interested in working at. The list below is broken down regionally by VISN (Veterans Integrated Service Network). For details regarding the specific facilities within each VISN please click here.
 A. VISN 1: VA England Healthcare System (ME, VT, NH, MA, CT, RI)
 B. VISN 2: New York/New Jersey VA Health Care Network (NY, NJ)
 C. VISN 4: VA Healthcare - VISN 4 (PA, DE)
 D. VISN 5: VA Capitol Health Care Network (DC, MD, WV)
 E. VISN 6: VA Mid-Atlantic Health Care Network (VA, NC)
 F. VISN 7: VA Southeast Network (AL, GA, SC)
 G. VISN 8: VA Sunshine Healthcare Network (FL, PR, Virgin Islands)
 H. VISN 9: VA MidSouth Healthcare Network (KY, TN)
 I. VISN 10: VA Healthcare System
 J. VISN 12: VA Great Lakes Health Care System
 K. VISN 15: VA Heartland Network
 L. VISN 16: South Central VA Health Care Network
 M. VISN 17: VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network
 N. VISN 19: Rocky Mountain Network
 O. VISN 20: Northwest Network
 P. VISN 21: Sierra Pacific Network
 Q. VISN 22: Desert Pacific Healthcare Network
 R. VISN 23: VA Midwest Health Care Network


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


8.
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Name and Contact Information
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you confirm that the above information is clearly stated for each work entry you are claiming experience for, and that each entry is full time unless otherwise annotated with part-time hours?
 Yes
 No


9.
I understand that this position is not remote; if selected, I understand I am required to be on-site at a VISN 23 facility and I am able to physically report to a VISN 23 facility. This is not negotiable.
Please select 'no' if you are not interested in a position on-site within VISN 23.
 Yes
 No


If applying as an internal or status candidate with current or former Federal Service, you must provide a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action", showing the highest grade or promotion potential held, dated within the last year.



All qualifying experience you possess must be clearly described in your application package. We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Failure to demonstrate your experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) in your application may result in disqualification. It is strongly recommended that you write to each KSA to demonstrate how you have gained each one in your application package or on a supplemental document. Please see the announcement for KSA requirements.



Assessment 1
The following section is used to identify basic requirements for this vacancy. Applicants who meet the basic requirements will be automatically found qualified at the GS-11 grade level.


1.
Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you meet one of the following requirements: (a) Bachelor's degree in Physical Therapy AND five years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist; OR (b) Master's degree in Physical Therapy AND two years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist; OR (c) Doctorate degree in physical therapy. Individuals must be a graduate of a Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE) accredited college or university. Applicants must include a copy of their official transcript.

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you hold a full, current, and unrestricted license or certification to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the Unites States or in the District of Columbia? New Physical Therapy graduates, or otherwise qualified candidates who will obtain licensure within two years of being hired will be considered for the GS-11 level only. Applicants must include a copy of their license.
 Yes, or, I am a new graduate or other qualified candidate who will obtain licensure within two years of appointment.
 No


This section includes questions about the minimum qualifications for this vacancy.


4.
Please select the response below that most accurately describes you for the GS-12 grade of this position:
In applying for the GS-12, I have completed a minimum of one year of physical therapy experience equivalent to the GS 11 grade level, hold a valid unrestricted state license and demonstrate all the KSAs below:
Ability to make autonomous clinical decisions in a Direct Access environment. This includes ability to independently evaluate and treat patients who seek physical therapy services.
Skill in performing examinations and evaluations of individuals who have or may develop impairments, activity limitations, and participation restrictions related to conditions of the musculoskeletal, neuromuscular, cardiovascular, pulmonary, and/or integumentary systems while considering the effects attributable to unique psychosocial and environmental factors.
Ability to interpret findings from examination and evaluation, select appropriate test and measures, and integrate findings into the physical therapy plan of care for the full range of patient populations.
Ability to establish a diagnosis within the scope of physical therapy and identify the appropriate rehabilitation intervention, including referral to another provider for further consultation as clinically indicated.
Ability to determine physical therapy prognosis by incorporating examination findings with the patient's preferences in order to set clinically appropriate treatment goals, optimize outcomes and maximize functional independence.
Ability to independently provide clinical oversight of Physical Therapy Assistants as well as students on clinical affiliations who are in Doctoral PT Programs or PTA Programs.
 I meet the requirements listed above for the GS-12 level.
 I do not meet the requirements listed above for the GS-12 level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙