Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Fuels) - Direct Hiring Authority
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NPSFAM-25-12748294-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 23, 2025 to Tuesday, July 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.
Assessment 1
Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet one of these basic requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. Your responses to the following minimum qualifications question, as well as the other questions in the questionnaire, in conjunction with the information provided in your completed application, will be evaluated to determine your qualifications for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS.
MIINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR: WILDLAND FIREFIGHTER (FUELS) GW-0456-07.
1. From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience requirements for a Wildland Firefighter (Fuels), GS-0456-07 position. Read all the responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position at the GS-07 level.

YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS/GW-06 grade level, in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes: an understanding of fire behavior relative to fuels, weather, and topography and how fire affects natural and cultural resources. Examples of experience may include: 1) participating in wildland fire activities (such as planning and/or implementing prescribed fire or managing wildfires) ensuring resource objectives are being met from a fire management standpoint; 2) leading firefighting crews in prescribed burning and wildfire suppression field operations and performing wildland fire suppression, preparedness, prevention, monitoring, hazardous fuels reduction and prescribed fire as a wildland firefighter crewmember; and/or 3) assisting with analyzing and predicting fire behavior when responding to wildland fire incidents. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
 B. I do not meet or exceed the above statement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. NWCG Qualifications (Selective Factor) - In addition to the minimum qualifications and specialized experience described above, all applicants must meet at least one of the following certification and currency paths by the closing date of the announcement: 1. ICT5 (Incident Commander Type 5); and ENGB (Engine Boss), CRWB (Crew Boss) and FIRB (Firing Boss) or Helicopter Manager (HMGB).

Have you successfully completed the NWCG Core Requirements of ICT5 (Incident Commander Type 5); and ENGB (Engine Boss), CRWB (Crew Boss) and FIRB (Firing Boss) or Helicopter Manager (HMGB).?

NOTE: A COPY OF THE incident QUALIFICATION AND CERTIFICATION SYSTEM (IQCS) MASTER RECORD (OR EQUIVALENT TRAINING DOCUMENT) WHICH CONTAINS DOCUMENTED PROOF CERTIFICATION OR ATTACHMENT OF THIS REQUIREMENT MUST BE ATTACHED TO THE APPLICATION.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you have substantial wildland firefighting experience performing on-the-line wildland firefighting experience gained through containment, control, suppression, or use of wildland fire. Wildland fire is defined as any non-structure fire that occurs in the wildland and is categorized into two distinct types: Wildfires, which is any unplanned ignitions or prescribed fires that are declared wildfires; and Prescribed Fires which are planned ignitions. (Prescribed fire experience must be supplemented by fire suppression experience in order to be creditable as previous wildland firefighting experience) AND do you have this experience documented with specific dates in your work history/resume?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected