Position Title
Executive Assistant
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-OMS-12790935-25-JR-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 29, 2025 to Tuesday, September 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Assessment 1
Thank you for applying for the Executive Assistant GS-0301-14 position. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
This vacancy is opened ONLY to current/former VA employees who are eligible for Agency T5 Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
1. From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for the Executive Assistant, GS-0301-14.
 A. I am a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and can confirm that: I'm located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, my grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, my last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 B. I do not meet any of the area of consideration as described in "A" and therefore, I am not eligible.
2. GS-14: Have you held a position within the federal government at the GS-13 level for a minimum of 52 weeks?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
3. You must have one year of specialized experience or equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-13 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. From the descriptions below, please select only one response that best describes the level of experience you fully possess that demonstrates your ability and qualifications to perform the work of a Executive Assistant at the GS-14 level.

For the GS-14: In addition to knowledge of the previous levels, assignments are independently planned and carried out with expert level of knowledge, evaluation and efficiency:
Applies expert knowledge to formulate new concepts, principles, and methods, and advise top agency management officials on the development and implementation of policy and procedures.
Essential knowledge qualifications include a demonstrated capacity for vision and forward thinking.
Expert ability to manage special projects from origin to completion and provide milestones, updates and reporting for successful project management.
Expert skills in the visualization of complex processes and procedures to facilitate communication of concepts, programs, projects, and systems to the senior leadership paired with presentation, persuasion, and team building skills.
Mastery experience with schedule management and prioritizing tasks.
Expert experience drafting and proofing written correspondence and responding to various stakeholders as submitted work has high-level review and scrutiny in grammar and spelling, and the content and context is prepared for executive-level concurrence in proper formatting without significant changes.
Applies the knowledge to lead special focus groups and mission oriented solutions to resolve issues directed by the Executive and Deputy Executive Director.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-13 level.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as stated in "A" and therefore, I am not eligible.
4. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected