Position Title
Intelligence Research Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-DE-12780618-MCL Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Friday, August 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
4. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If selected for this position, you must successfully complete a multi-week training at a designated training facility as outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Failure to successfully complete the required training course(s) in accordance with the standards and policies of Customs and Border Protection will be grounds for removal from the position. Such failure will result in either reassignment to a former or different position, demotion, or separation by appropriate procedures.

If you have previously attended this training, the requirement may be waived. If you answer "no" to the training agreement acknowledgment question below, you will be removed from further consideration for this position.

Do you acknowledge the training requirement and agree to the terms outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above?
 A. Yes, I confirm that I understand and agree to the term as outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above.
 B. No, I do not agree to the training requirement terms and understand that I will be removed from further consideration for this position.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to determine whether or not you meet the Mandatory Basic Requirement for this position.  You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes researching, evaluating, integrating, and analyzing all-source data in the preparation of clear, concise, in-depth intelligence analytical products; identifying intelligence gaps and assists with the development of associated Essential Elements of Information required to satisfy and close the intelligence gaps; compiling, collating, extrapolating, and exploiting information from intel databases, classified and unclassified, open-source reporting; and researching, reviewing, and evaluating a high volume of classified and sensitive intelligence information.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
2. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes executing intelligence processes across all phases of the intelligence cycle: planning and direction, collection, processing and exploitation, analysis and production, and dissemination; developing new intelligence processes and methods to support leadership threat prioritization; generating intelligence products that reveal the following: current and potential threat identities, associations, and travel/movements; organizational composition, tactics, techniques, and procedures; and threat activities, chronologies, capabilities, resources, and patterns; and using established intelligence techniques to analyze data from a variety of sources to develop targets, trends, patterns, profiles, estimates, and studies.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of the intelligence cycle.

 A. I have no knowledge of the intelligence cycle.
 B. I am familiar with the stages of the intelligence cycle and possess in-depth knowledge of the preliminary steps (for example, collection).
 C. I have extensive knowledge of all phases of the intelligence cycle, from planning and direction to dissemination and the subsequent reevaluation of requirements.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience collecting and extracting intelligence information.

 A. I had had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience collecting and extracting intelligence information from unclassified sources (for example, the internet, newspapers, foreign broadcasts) for use by others.
 C. I have had experience collecting and extracting intelligence information from unclassified and classified sources (for example, foreign broadcasts, classified databases, secure telephone lines).
 D. I have had experience overseeing the collection and extraction of intelligence information from unclassified and classified sources (for example, foreign broadcasts, classified databases, secure telephone lines).
5. Indicate the extent of your experience performing preliminary analyses and evaluations of intelligence data.

 A. I had had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a general understanding of analytic methods and techniques used to evaluate intelligence data, but limited hands-on experience in applying these methods/techniques on the job.
 C. I have had experience performing preliminary analyses and evaluations of routine intelligence data under the guidance of a supervisor or other senior individual.
 D. I have had experience independently performing preliminary analyses and evaluations of a wide range of intelligence data.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience reviewing, processing, and evaluating intelligence information.

 A. I had had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had minimal experience reviewing, processing, and evaluating intelligence information.
 C. I have had experience reviewing, processing, and evaluating intelligence information to determine the significance of developments. Additionally, I have had experience assisting with the initiation, planning, and evaluation of research and analysis programs, policies and procedures.
 D. I have had experience leading the review, processing, and evaluation of intelligence information from multiple sources to assess its relevance and determine the significance of developments. Additionally, I have had experience initiating, planning, and evaluating research and analysis programs, policies and procedures.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience compiling intelligence data into analyses/reports.

 A. I had had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience assisting others with compiling intelligence data into analyses/reports.
 C. I have had experience compiling intelligence data into analyses/reports as part of my routine duties and responsibilities.
 D. I have had extensive experience in supervising the preparation of intelligence analyses/reports. The results of these reports were used to influence operational decisions.
8. Have you been responsible for ensuring that sensitive and/or classified data are properly classified, stored, and handled?

 A. YES
 B. NO
9. Do you have experience developing and researching intelligence related to transnational crimes?

 A. YES
 B. NO
10. Indicate the extent of your experience developing and researching intelligence related to significant terrorist organizations.

 A. I had had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience researching specific aspects of a single terrorist organization (for example, membership and affiliations) under the direction of a supervisor or other senior individual.
 C. I have had experience independently developing and researching intelligence regarding multiple aspects of a single terrorist organization (for example, membership, ideology, recruitment, leadership).
 D. I have had extensive experience developing and researching intelligence regarding multiple aspects of multiple terrorist organizations (for example, membership, affiliation, ideology, recruitment, leadership).
 E. I have had experience leading teams of specialists of operators responsible for developing and researching intelligence regarding all aspects of multiple terrorist organizations (for example, membership, affiliation, ideology, recruitment, leadership, finances, longevity).
11. Indicate the extent of your experience developing trends, patterns, profiles, estimates, and tactical interdiction information.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of a supervisor or other senior individual, I have had experience performing simple data analyses (for example, key performance indicator, data aggregation, data visualization) to identify trends, patterns, and profiles.
 C. I have had some experience performing routine data analyses (for example, key performance indicator, data aggregation, data visualization) and statistical data reduction techniques on datasets to develop trends, patterns, profiles, and estimates.
 D. I have had extensive experience performing data mining, predictive analytics, and statistical data reduction techniques on large datasets to identify and validate consistent patterns, profiles, estimates, and/or systematic relationships between variables. I have used this information to make recommendations regarding tactical interdiction.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience reviewing finished intelligence products.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. With guidance from a supervisor or other more senior individual, I have reviewed finished intelligence products to assess the completeness and accuracy of the content.
 C. I have independently reviewed finished intelligence products to assess completeness, accuracy, and compliance with established professional standards and procedures. I have identified discrepancies and recommended changes which would complete the product or bring the product into compliance.
 D. I have extensive experience reviewing finished intelligence products to assess the completeness and accuracy of the product and the proper application of policy and regulation, and have approved all final changes. I have been the person ultimately responsible for ensuring a product's compliance with policy and regulation.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience initiating and maintaining contacts/liaison with counterparts and colleagues.

 A. I had had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience in establishing and maintaining contacts/liaison with colleagues within my organization.
 C. I have had experience in establishing and maintaining contacts/liaison with counterparts and colleagues at Federal, state and local levels, as well as internal organizational components. This experience includes assisting higher authorities on complex matters and meetings on matters of operational concern.
 D. I have had extensive experience in establishing and maintaining contacts/liaison with high-level Federal, state and local levels, as well as internal organizational components, to include making formal presentations on complex matters and operational concerns.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience adjusting to changing work priorities and assignments.

 A. I had had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have adapted to minor or temporary changes affecting my own assignments or work schedule by rescheduling work or refocusing my efforts.
 C. I have rearranged some priorities and rescheduled a significant amount of work to accommodate changes in resources or goals. I have recommended new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
 D. I have rearranged virtually all work priorities and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks. I have developed new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience communicating in writing.

 A. I had had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience writing simple informative material concerning limited policies and procedures, preparing reports, and composing letters to general inquiries.
 C. I have had experience writing technical material concerning policies and procedures, to include preparing information for public inquiries.
 D. I have had experience composing a variety of formal and informal written materials concerning complex policies and procedures, covering a wide spectrum of functions, to include detailed reports and policy documents.
 E. I have had extensive experience composing a variety of formal and informal written complex policies and procedures covering a wide spectrum of functions, to include preparing detailed reports, agency-level policy documents, legal briefs or publications.
16. Select the option that best describes your ability to express ideas verbally.

 A. I had had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience verbally answering questions from other employees about matters that are limited to a narrow range of routine topics.
 C. I have had experience verbally presenting or briefing reports and other information to a variety of individuals with a similar level of technical expertise and organizational knowledge.
 D. I have had experience formally verbally presenting and explaining findings and approaches, providing and justifying related recommendations in an efficient and effective manner, and addressing a wide variety of individuals with various levels of technical expertise and organizational knowledge.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected