Position Title
Supervisory Consumer Safety Inspector
Agency
Food Safety and Inspection Service
Announcement Number
FSIS-25-MMP-12774863-NB Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 6, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
1. Are you a current Food Safety and Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Food Safety and Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. DOCUMENT UPLOADS - I understand that each document uploaded must be less than 5MB and in one of the following document formats: GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, PDF, TXT, or Word (.DOC or .DOCX). For more information see the "How to Apply" portion of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. How did you learn about this FSIS position? Please select all that apply.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Social Media (such as Facebook, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Job Finder Site (such as Indeed, Monster, etc.)
 D. Job Board from School, College, University, or Alumni Organization (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity, 12Twenty, Other)
 E. Local Billboard
 F. FSIS-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event
 G. School-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event Sponsored by a School, College, University, or Alumni Organization
 H. FSIS Employee
 I. USDA Employee
 J. Friend, Family Member, or non-FSIS or non-USDA Coworker
 K. USAJobs Search
 L. Other
5. Please share any additional details about how you learned about this position, especially if you selected "Other" in the previous question. If nothing to add, enter "N/A".
6. Potential Variation in Shift, Duty Location, and Amount of Travel:

Vacancy shift, duty location, and amount of travel may be frequent. I am willing to accept a position that includes the following (select all that apply):
 A. 1st Shift
 B. 2nd Shift
 C. 3rd Shift
 D. Rotating Shifts
 E. Varying shifts with frequent travel (50%-75% of the time)
 F. Varying shifts with very frequent travel (76% or more of the time)
7. 2-PAGE LIMIT ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - I understand that there is a 2-page limit on resume length. Only the first two pages will be reviewed for qualification determination for resumes longer than two pages. For more information on what to include in your resume, see the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. I have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 level (or equivalent) that is clearly outlined in my resume demonstrating the following:

 A. Experience that provided knowledge of the properties and characteristics of inspection activities of ingestible items, working with SSOP and HACCP principles and practices; skill in applying proper techniques for collecting samples and performing field tests and examinations, and experience in reaching and interpreting conclusions; experience developing written reports and communicating findings verbally; and experience in maintaining personal contacts with internal and external stakeholders.
 B. I do not have the experience as outlined above and in the job opportunity announcement.
2. I have one year of time in grade at the GS-9 (or equivalent) level:
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. N/A as I am applying under a special hiring authority that is exempt from time in grade requirements
3. Please select all that apply. Describe your experience influencing, motivating, or challenging others to accomplish the mission. I have:
 A. Acted as the Inspector-in-Charge (IIC) or shift lead when needed.
 B. Planned and directed inspection activities of ingestible items.
 C. Supervised personnel in completion of their assigned tasks.
 D. Provided technical direction to inspection or quality assurance personnel.
 E. Performed various administrative or supervisory functions for personnel.
 F. Ensured personnel completed duties and scheduled tasks to meet deadlines.
 G. Fostered relationships between internal and external stakeholders to improve collaboration.
 H. None of the above.
4. Supervisory Experience. I have one or more years of supervisory experience. Choose the description that best matches your supervisory experience.
 A. A staff of 20 or more employees with responsibility for more than one functional area.
 B. A staff of 10-19 employees with responsibility for more than one functional area.
 C. A staff with fewer than 10 employees or single function staff.
 D. None of the above descriptions apply.
5. Please select all that apply. Describe your experience expressing information effectively while listening to others, identifying nonverbal cues, and responding appropriately. I have:
 A. Planned and communicated the steps necessary to verify implementation of food safety systems.
 B. Interacted with internal and external stakeholders to interpret and clarify regulations, policies, procedures, and practices.
 C. Fostered working relationships between internal and external stakeholders to improve collaboration.
 D. None of the above.
6. Please select all that apply. Describe your experience providing clear and concise verbal instructions. I have:
 A. Coordinated inspection activities amongst personnel including completion of inspection tasks.
 B. Supervised personnel in completion of assigned tasks.
 C. Provided technical direction to inspection personnel and perform various administrative and supervisory functions for subordinates.
 D. Served as the Inspector-in-Charge (IIC) or shift lead when needed.
 E. Ensured personnel completed duties and scheduled tasks to meet deadlines.
 F. None of the above.
7. Please select all that apply. Describe your experience acting as the Inspector-In-Charge (IIC) or Shift Lead as needed. I have performed the following tasks to find resolution:
 A. Identified and analyzed problems.
 B. Weighed the relevance and accuracy of information.
 C. Generated and evaluated alternative solutions.
 D. Made recommendations.
 E. None of the above.
8. Please select all that apply. I have experience problem solving to verify an establishment's food safety system and regulatory compliance to include:
 A. Pathogen reduction
 B. Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) systems
 C. Sanitary Performance Standards (SPS)
 D. Sanitation Standard Operating Procedures (SSOP)
 E. Humane slaughter and handling of animals
 F. Food defense measures
 G. Good manufacturing practices (GMPs)
 H. Other inspection requirements involving slaughter and/or processed product.
 I. None of the above.
9. Please select all that apply. I have experience reacting to unexpected obstacles, changing conditions, and new information as it relates to the following tasks:
 A. Planning and directing activities to verify the implementation of food safety systems.
 B. Coordinating inspection activities amongst personnel.
 C. Fostering relationships between internal and external stakeholders to improve collaboration.
 D. None of the above.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
10. Select the answer that best describes your experience working independently where you had to set realistic goals for planning and directing work of others.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
11. Please select all that apply. Describe your experience working with people to portray information that may require de-escalation skills and sensitivity to cultural diversity. I have experience:
 A. Identifying what corrective measures meet regulatory requirements and communicating that information to stakeholders.
 B. Coordinating inspection activities amongst personnel.
 C. Interacting with internal and external stakeholders to interpret and clarify regulations, policies, procedures, and practices.
 D. Fostering relationships between internal and external stakeholders to improve collaboration.
 E. None of the above.
12. Please select all that apply. I have experience fostering an inclusive environment, relating to people from varied backgrounds and cultures, to:
 A. Supervise personnel in completion of assigned tasks.
 B. Evaluate implementation of rules, policies, guidelines, or regulations.
 C. Serve in a lead or informal leadership role.
 D. None of the above.
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.
13. Please select the answer that best describes your experience from the responses below. I have experience developing and maintaining relationships using friendliness, courtesy, tact, and empathy to plan and direct the full range of day-to-day food inspection activities.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
14. I have experience working in:

 A. Slaughter plants - poultry
 B. Slaughter plants - red meat
 C. Processing plants - poultry
 D. Processing plants - red meat
 E. Processing plants - egg products
 F. Processing plants - thermal processing (e.g. canning)
 G. Import or Export Inspection
 H. Other food processing plants
 I. I do not have experience working in any of the above environments.
15. I have knowledge of and/or experience working with the following laws:
 A. Federal Meat Inspection Act
 B. Poultry Products Inspection Act
 C. Egg Products Inspection Act
 D. Humane Slaughter Act (9 CFR 313)
 E. Rules of Practice (9 CFR 500)
 F. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected