Position Title
Industrial Worker
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12816872-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 3, 2025 to Wednesday, November 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Industrial Worker, WG-6501-4 (TERM) position with Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Occupational Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Industrial Worker duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex task of an Industrial Worker without more than normal supervision. I have the ability to physically handle, move, segregate cleaning, unpack, pack, mark, label and palletize a variety of munitions or explosives. Assemble primers, tracers, fuzes and propellant bags to munition. And extract munitions from containers and sort the different metals. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of an Industrial Worker. I am skilled in performing manual tasks involving explosives and explosives related items in a manufacturing, production or warehouse environment and assists in the demilitarization of ammunition. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks of Industrial Worker's duties in a production environment assembling items, handling materials, unloading boxes and placing the material at the correct production phase, replacing defective products, sorting items utilizing physical characteristics and packaging finished product and utilizing manual assembly and automated production equipment. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks of Industrial Worker's duties. I have received training in a manufacturing, production or warehouse environment.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙