Position Title
Enforcement and Removal Assistant (OA)
Agency
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Announcement Number
OPM-ERO-12821414-DHA-JS Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 27, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?
If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 2 location(s).
Birmingham, AL
Gadsden, AL
Mobile, AL
Montgomery, AL
Anchorage, AK
Eloy, AZ
Florence, AZ
Phoenix, AZ
Tucson, AZ
Yuma, AZ
Fayetteville, AR
Fort Smith, AR
Little Rock, AR
Texarkana, AR
Adelanto, CA
Bakersfield, CA
Calexico, CA
Camarillo, CA
El Centro, CA
Fresno, CA
Los Angeles, CA
Morgan Hill, CA
Redding, CA
Sacramento, CA
San Bernardino, CA
San Diego, CA
San Francisco, CA
Santa Ana, CA
Santa Maria, CA
Stockton, CA
Alamosa, CO
Aurora, CO
Centennial, CO
Craig, CO
Durango, CO
Florence, CO
Frederick, CO
Grand Junction, CO
Hartford, CT
Dover, DE
Fort Myers, FL
Jacksonville, FL
Miami, FL
Miramar, FL
Orlando, FL
Plantation, FL
Pompano Beach, FL
Stuart, FL
Tallahassee, FL
Tampa, FL
Atlanta, GA
Folkston, GA
Lumpkin, GA
Savannah, GA
Tamuning, GU
Honolulu, HI
Boise, ID
Idaho Falls, ID
Twin Falls, ID
Broadview, IL
Chicago, IL
Rock Island, IL
Indianapolis, IN
Cedar Rapids, IA
Des Moines, IA
Sioux City, IA
Wichita, KS
Bowling Green, KY
Louisville, KY
Alexandria, LA
Baton Rouge, LA
Jena, LA
Lafayette, LA
New Orleans, LA
Oakdale, LA
Winnfield, LA
Scarborough, ME
Baltimore, MD
Salisbury, MD
Burlington, MA
Detroit, MI
Fort Snelling, MN
Grand Rapids, MN
Gulfport, MS
Pearl, MS
Kansas City, MO
Saint Louis, MO
Strafford, MO
Billings, MT
Grand Island, NE
North Platte, NE
Omaha, NE
Las Vegas, NV
Reno, NV
Manchester, NH
Elizabeth, NJ
Mount Laurel, NJ
Newark, NJ
Albuquerque, NM
Chaparral, NM
Las Cruces, NM
Roswell, NM
Batavia, NY
Buffalo, NY
Central Islip, NY
Champlain, NY
Malta, NY
New York, NY
Cary, NC
Charlotte, NC
Greensboro, NC
Hendersonville, NC
Wilmington, NC
Grand Forks, ND
Brooklyn Heights, OH
Cincinnati, OH
Westerville, OH
Oklahoma City, OK
Tulsa, OK
Eugene, OR
Medford, OR
Portland, OR
Lords Valley, PA
Philadelphia, PA
Philipsburg, PA
Pittsburgh, PA
Williamsport, PA
York, PA
Aguadilla, PR
Guaynabo, PR
Warwick, RI
Charleston, SC
Columbia, SC
Greer, SC
Sioux Falls, SD
Chattanooga, TN
Knoxville, TN
Nashville, TN
Alvarado, TX
Amarillo, TX
Anson, TX
Athens, TX
Austin, TX
Big Spring, TX
Conroe, TX
Corpus Christi, TX
Dallas, TX
Del Rio, TX
Edinburg, TX
El Paso, TX
Harlingen, TX
Houston, TX
Huntsville, TX
Karnes City, TX
Laredo, TX
Livingston, TX
Los Fresnos, TX
Lubbock, TX
Memphis, TX
Midland, TX
Pearsall, TX
Pecos, TX
Pflugerville, TX
Raymondville, TX
San Angelo, TX
San Antonio, TX
Taylor, TX
Waco, TX
Ogden, UT
Orem, UT
Saint George, UT
West Valley City, UT
Saint Albans, VT
Charlotte Amalie, VI
Saint Thomas, VI
Bowling Green, VA
Chantilly, VA
Harrisonburg, VA
Norfolk, VA
Richmond, VA
Salem, VA
Ferndale, WA
Richland, WA
Seattle, WA
Tacoma, WA
Yakima, WA
Charleston, WV
Milwaukee, WI
Cheyenne, WY


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
8


3.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


4.
Do any of your family members work for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement?

(A family member means an individual with any of the following relationships to the applicant: (1) Spouse, and parents thereof; (2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof; (3) Parents, and spouses thereof; (4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof; (5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof; (6) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in (2) through (5) of this definition; and (7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.)
 Yes
 No


5.
If the answer to the question above is yes, please provide the relative(s)' name, relationship, and the ICE office or organization for which your relative(s) works (if known).If the answer to the question above is no, please indicate 'not applicable'. (limit 1,000 characters)


6.
I acknowledge that I am solely responsible for the answers and documentation submitted in my online application. I understand that my answers cannot be altered once I have submitted my application and the announcement has closed. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information contained in my online application for Federal Employment is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that a false or fraudulent answer to any question or item on any part of my online application may be grounds for not hiring me, or for firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment or both (See section 1001 of title 18, United States Code).

By clicking "Yes" below, I certify that I accept responsibility for the responses and documentation submitted in my online application and that the information I have provided is true to the best of my knowledge.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-06 level performing duties such as listed below?
Providing clerical and administrative support to a law enforcement program including preparing travel documents and making travel arrangements for domestic and/or international travel.
Establishing, tracking, and/or maintaining legal case files.
Preparing legal documents, including warrants and records of proceedings.
Reviewing bond cases to determine status and identify next course of action (e.g., to continue, cancel, or breach) for supervisory review.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-07 level performing duties such as listed below?
Maintaining and reviewing docket files.
Collecting and analyzing data from law enforcement databases.
Researching detainee history using multiple sources to establish identity and citizenship.
Coordinating escorts and transportation associated with deportation or removal activities. 
Reviewing bond cases to determine status and taking appropriate action to continue, cancel, or breach.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you type at least 40 words per minute based on a five-minute sample with three or fewer errors?

 Yes (By selecting this option, you are self-certifying your typing proficiency.)
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙