Position Title
Water Pump Repairer
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH-25-12829778-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 6, 2025 to Wednesday, November 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


3.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has a requirement to lift up to 50 lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 315. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Water Pump Repairer, WG-5301-09 position with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please select only one letter for each item.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes your highest level of experience as it relates to your ability to perform the duties of the Water Pump Repairer, WG-5301-09 position.

 I have independently carried out a wide variety of Journeyman Water Pump Repairer tasks to include installation, operation, troubleshooting, repair, replacement, predictive and preventative maintenance of vertical hollow shaft motors, propeller pumps, siphon breakers, pump motor ratchets, submersible turbine pumps, centrifugal pumps, vacuum breaker pumps and various valves and gauges; operating a variety of heavy equipment including 5 and 10-yard tandem and single axle dump trucks, semi-dump trash truck and trailer, gas and diesel powered tractor with attachments, loader, backhoe, and watercraft; AND planning and completing general carpentry projects and repairs; operation and maintenance of hand and power tools including table saws, band saws, and other powered equipment. My resume reflects current or past experience performing these tasks.
 With minimal supervision, I am able to perform difficult tasks of a Water Pump Repairer to include installation, operation, troubleshooting, repair, replacement, predictive and preventative maintenance of multiple types of pumps; operate a variety of gas- and diesel-powered heavy equipment and watercraft on a regular basis; perform general carpentry projects and repairs; AND operate and maintain hand and power tools. My resume reflects current or past experience performing these tasks.
 Under normal supervision, I am able to perform common tasks of a Water Pump Repairer including repairing and maintaining automated underground irrigation systems to include various types of pumps; operating a variety of gas- and diesel-powered heavy equipment; performing general carpentry projects and repairs; AND operate and maintain hand and power tools. My resume reflects current or past experience performing these tasks.
 I have performed and/or assisted with basic tasks of a Water Pump Repairer such as performing repair and maintenance of multiple types of pumps and irrigation systems; AND operate and maintain hand and power tools. My resume reflects current or past experience performing these tasks.
 My training or experience is not reflected in the above statements, but I am willing to learn.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙