Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Services
Announcement Number
HHS-ASA-DH-25-12780724 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 8, 2025 to Wednesday, August 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the Department of Health and Human Services? If yes, confirm:
• You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• Your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy AND
• Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and the most current Performance Appraisal. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center page (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ctap/).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and a copy of the most current Performance Appraisal.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ictap/)
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
12
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents.
1. This position requires applicants to meet a Basic Education Requirement in addition to at least one year of specialized experience in order to be found minimally qualified. Please select the description below that best describes your education experience as required for the Contract Specialist, GS-1102-9/11/12 position. Your transcript(s) must support the response you selected.
 A. I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field.
 B. I have completed at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 C. I meet the exception as follows: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupy GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to meet the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through grade 12. However, employees must meet specialized experience requirements when seeking another position.
 D. I do not meet the basic education requirements as described above.
2. From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience and/or education and meets the minimum qualification requirements for Contract Specialist, GS-1102-09.
 A. I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service that include the following: Assisting in planning and/or carrying out pre-award/post-award actions required in the acquisition of professional and/or technical services; Assisting in the development of acquisition activities; and Preparing a variety of written materials including correspondence and/or contract documents.
 B. I have a Master’s or equivalent graduate degree or completed at least two full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a LL.B. or J.D. if related, or equivalent graduate degree in one or a combination of the following fields is required: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (Must submit transcripts)
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B that, when combined, equal 100% of the total requirement. (You must submit transcripts.)
 D. My experience and/or education are not reflected in the statement(s) listed above, therefore I am not qualified for this position.
3. From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience and/or education and meets the minimum qualification requirements for the Contract Specialist, GS-1102-11 position.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal service performing all the following: 1. Researching and applying legislation, regulations, policies and methods used in contracting (e.g., Federal Acquisition Regulation); 2. Negotiating contracts to develop contract prices and terms; applying price/cost analysis techniques to evaluate contractor proposals; and 3. Utilizing contract administration policy and/or procedures to administer contracts.
 B. I have successfully completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 C. I possess a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B that, when combined, equal 100% of the total requirement. (You must submit transcripts.)
 D. I do not meet or exceed the specialized experience as described above.
4. From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience and/or education and meets the minimum qualification requirements for the Contract Specialist, GS-1102-12 position.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service performing all the following: 1. Researching and analyzing legislation, regulations, policies and methods used in contracting (e.g. Federal Acquisition Regulation); 2. Utilizing contracting principles and procedures applicable to pre-award and/or post award requirements to procure and/or administer contracts; 3. Applying acquisition, contract, and procurement regulations to prepare solicitations; 4. Evaluating the cost/price elements of contracts; and providing recommendations to senior level managers in response to contractual issues.
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected