Position Title
Foreign Affairs Specialist
Agency
National Nuclear Security Administration
Announcement Number
25-NA-80-XA-00443-NNSAL Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 22, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).
2. I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
WARNING! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from employment consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications.
3. I have read this Vacancy Announcement thoroughly and understand that supplemental documentation may be required. I further understand that I will not be considered if my supplemental documentation is not received in the Servicing Personnel Office by the closing date of the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you currently serving or have you served under a Political Appointment in the Federal Government within the last five (5) years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
Assessment 1
1. To meet the Basic Requirements for the Foreign Affairs Specialist series (0130), select the option that describes your education and/or experience background.

 A. Degree: major or equivalent, or a combination of courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; or 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines and 12 semester hours in statistics/quantitative methods. (An unofficial transcript must be submitted).
 B. Combination of education and experience -- courses equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (An unofficial transcript must be submitted).
 C. Experience -- four years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs
 D. None of the above.
2. In addition to meeting the basic requirements, a qualified candidate's online application and resume must demonstrate at least one year of specialized federal government experience equivalent to the next lower grade level. Select the response that demonstrates how you meet this requirement.

 A. I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the EN-03 or NQ-03 level that includes: 1) applying foreign affairs practices, policies and procedures including building relationships with foreign governments and counterparts; 2) leading and developing emergency operation procedures; and 3) serving as a program or project manager for one or more areas in assigned portfolio and/or overseeing development and execution of projects and programs.
 B. I do not meet the specialized experience described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. This job opportunity announcement is only open to current competitive service and excepted service employees of the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA). Are you a current, permanent employee of the NNSA?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. From the options below please select the statement(s) that describe your experience related to artificial intelligence. Select all that apply.

 A. I have experience developing red-teaming strategies to evaluate AI and emerging technologies for risks associated with Weapons of Mass Destruction.
 B. I have prepared issue and/or background papers on topics related to AI and emerging technologies’ impact on national security for senior government decision makers.
 C. I have worked directly with companies developing frontier large language models on national security applications and risks.
 D. I am well-versed in the latest research and publications on the safety and security concerns related to AI and emerging technologies.
 E. I have planned and overseen execution of multi-laboratory technical programs on scientific topics related to AI and national security risks.
 F. None of the above
5. From the options below please indicate your experience related to strategic planning. Select all that apply.

 A. I have developed, evaluated, conducted, and managed planning and strategic messaging programs on nuclear counterterrorism and/or nuclear threats.
 B. I have prepared issue and/or background papers on nuclear counterterrorism and nuclear threat issues.
 C. I have prepared responses to congressional, politically appointed executives, and/or OMB inquiries related to nuclear counterterrorism and nuclear threat issues.
 D. I have prepared input for written guidance, instructions, or briefing materials for foreign affairs programs or cooperative international projects related to nuclear counterterrorism and nuclear counterproliferation.
 E. I have planned and overseen execution of multi-laboratory technical programs on scientific topics related to nuclear counterterrorism.
 F. None of the above.
6. Which of the following issues do you have experience in developing technical, strategic, or foreign policy analyses, recommendations or studies? Select all that apply.

 A. Domestic nuclear material security
 B. International nuclear material security
 C. Nuclear threat device design classification
 D. Sensitive nuclear design information security
 E. Nuclear terrorism prevention and render safe capabilities
 F. None of the above.
7. From the options below please indicate your experience communicating orally and in writing. Select all that apply.
 A. I have developed, evaluated, conducted, and managed strategic messaging programs on nuclear counterterrorism and/or nuclear threats.
 B. I have prepared issue and/or background papers on nuclear counterterrorism and nuclear threat issues.
 C. I have prepared responses to congressional, politically appointed executives, and/or OMB inquiries related to nuclear counterterrorism and nuclear threat issues.
 D. I have prepared input for written guidance or instructions for foreign affairs programs or projects related to nuclear counterterrorism and nuclear counterproliferation.
 E. I have presented briefing materials and talking points for foreign affairs programs on nuclear counterterrorism and nuclear threat issues. [0] 6. None of the above.
 F. None of the above.
8. Select the response that best describes your experience developing written products to communicate complex program, technical and administrative issues concerning international nuclear counterproliferation, nuclear counterterrorism, nuclear incident response, and other activities applicable to U.S. nuclear material and nuclear design information security.
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
 F. None of the above.
9. From the options below please indicate your experience related to nuclear weapons. Select all that apply.

 A. I have developed, evaluated, conducted, and managed the application of technical information to nuclear counterterrorism planning and program development.
 B. I have prepared issue and/or background papers on technical concepts related to nuclear counterterrorism and nuclear threat issues.
 C. I maintain a robust understanding of the laws, policies, and regulations related to nuclear information and classification.
 D. I have worked with interagency partners to apply nuclear counterterrorism technical information to inform other agencies execution of mission and priorities.
 E. I have presented briefing materials and talking points on nuclear counterterrorism technical topics.
 F. None of the above.
10. Select the statement best describes your experience working with foreign partners on nuclear counterterrorism initiatives?

 A. I have extensive experience working with international partners on programs related to nuclear counterterrorism and response to nuclear terrorism threats.
 B. I have limited experience working with international partners on programs related to nuclear counterterrorism capability development and response to nuclear terrorism threats.
 C. I have experience working with international partners on programs other than nuclear counterterrorism capability development and response to nuclear terrorism threats
 D. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected