Position Title
Third Mate Towboat
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG258723907661HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 3, 2025 to Monday, July 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Third Mate, Towboat position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Third Mate, Towboat duties without more than normal supervision.

 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks such as: making up and breaking up of tows; taking on fuel; inspecting, maintaining and repairing holds in superstructure by cleaning, chipping, scraping, and painting; tying up plant, supply, and material barges; loading and unloading supplies, materials, and parts; operating electric and manual winches; making slings and rigs for heavy lifts; making necessary fastenings between buoys and buoy anchors; performing general housekeeping on the boat; placing, cleaning, and inspecting running, search, and mooring lights; splicing cables and synthetic lines; and any other deck operation and maintenance functions; planning , coordinating, and directing a variety of related work operations or functions with minimum oversight; and training for others on technical matters and ensuring training requirements are met. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks such as: Fastening, lashing or otherwise securing floating plant with cable, rope, ratchets, etc., to ensure safe towing or mooring; checking tow en route, tightening, loosening and adjusting lashings as required; Placing, cleaning and inspecting running, search and mooring lights; Inspecting and dewatering bilge leakage; repairing, when possible en route, or notifying Master of condition; Operates deck equipment such as winches and capstans to secure tow, move or hoist heavy items; and assisting with repairs. I have the ability to plan and perform work, complete all assignments from beginning to end as described in oral or written instructions. Additionally, I demonstrate the ability to analyze problems, and suggest effective solutions within the unit. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform common tasks such as: Operation, maintenance, and repair of deck equipment and machinery; supervise and work along deck crew in making up and breaking up tows; assisting in conducting fire, lifeboat and man-overboard drills. I have completed or plan to complete supervisor or leader training that covers such topics as effective supervisory practices in providing work direction; performing work planning; performing administrative responsibilities such as maintaining work reports and records, and investigating grievances and complaints. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have the ability to perform simple tasks such as: basic knowledge of Third Mate duties. I have some experience, which shows I have the potential to perform the full range of Third Mate. I am able to perform uncomplicated work under close supervision. I am able to assist higher grade employees, follow step by step instructions, and make limited decisions in completing assignments.
 E. I do not possess the abilities described above.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected