Position Title
Park Ranger (Protection)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
IM-1539-CANY-25-12782778-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 21, 2025 to Friday, August 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current career/career-conditional Department of the Interior Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current Department of the Interior Federal employee with a career or career- conditional appointment in the competitive service that holds, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced.
 
To verify your eligibility as a current Department of the Interior Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current Department of The Interior employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation for the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA) eligibility, which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations, for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.
For more information, review Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current career/career-conditional Department of the Interior Federal employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current Department of the Interior Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced.

To verify your eligibility as a Department of the Interior Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current Department of the Interior employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.
2. My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a formal Performance Improvement Plan (PIP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
3. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
7. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-11 position. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. You must select only ONE response for each item. If you change a response, be certain to erase (unclick) the incorrect response before you submit the application. Once you have submitted your application, items with more than one response or that are left blank will not receive credit. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS.
Minimum Qualifications for GS-11
1. From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience requirements for a Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-11 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 A. I have at least one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS/GL-09 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of qualifying specialized experience includes but is not limited to experience in a primary law enforcement position in the federal government, or equivalent experience outside the federal government. Extensive experience and skills in the full range of advanced law enforcement techniques and procedures: including patrol operations, law enforcement, and criminal investigations. Understanding of federal, state and local laws, regulations, relevant court decisions that relate to the management of public lands and their natural, cultural, and human resources. Knowledge of instructional methods and techniques to develop advanced law enforcement training materials and to plan and provide specialized situational and classroom training to agency.
 B. I do not have the specialized experience described in A above, but I have successful completed of at least three full years of graduate level study leading to a Doctorate, Ph.D., or equivalent degree at an accredited college or university in directly-related fields such as natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archaeology, anthropology, park and recreation management; law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, or sociology.(You must include transcripts.)
 C. I do not have the specialized experience described in A or B above, but I have successfully completed a COMBINATION of education and experience as described above. To combine education and experience, first take the number of semester hours or equivalent earned towards a graduate degree, in excess of 36 semester hours, and divide by 18 semester hours or equivalent. Then, take the number of months of experience and divide by 12 months. Add the percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (You must include transcripts.)
 D. I do not have the experience and/or education described above. By selecting this response, I understand that I will no longer be considered for this position.
Type 1 Law Enforcement Commission (Selective Factor)
2. In addition to the requirements in the questions above, selectees must possess a Type I National Park Service Law Enforcement Commission at time of application, which requires successful completion of an approved Law Enforcement Training Program. Please select the one response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for these positions. Applicants must document how they meet this requirement, as indicated below, to be considered qualified for this position.

 A. I currently hold, or have previously held within the last three years, a full National Park Service Type I Law Enforcement Commission. You must provide a copy of your commission with the number and expiration date.
 B. I will successfully complete the above Type I Law Enforcement Training Program prior to the closing date of the announcement. You must indicate your expected completion date in your resume.
 C. I do not have a National Park Service Type I Law Enforcement Commission.
Maximum Entry Age (MEA) (Selective Factor)
3. This position is covered by the special retirement provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8336 (c) and 5 U.S.C. 8412 (d). Applicants must not have reached their 37th birthday by the appointment date to this position. (Exception: This age restriction does not apply to those who have sufficient prior Federal civilian service in a covered position to permit retirement on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57 or those who are eligible for veterans' preference.) From the descriptions below, select the one statement that most accurately describes how you meet this requirement. Read all responses before making your selection.
 A. I have not reached the age of 37.
 B. I am 37 years of age or older and not currently in a special retirement position, but I would qualify as a veteran preference eligible. (Note: Provide the necessary documentation to support your claim (e.g. Member -4 copy of DD-214, Veterans Affairs disability letter, SF-15).
 C. I am 37 years of age or older, but I have prior Federal service in a covered primary law enforcement or firefighter position, which would permit retirement on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57 for this position. (Note: Provide documentation with your application that shows beginning and ending dates of your covered Federal service and hours per week (e.g. copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50s).
 D. I am 37 years of age or older and do not meet any of the above requirements.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected