Position Title
ATTORNEY-ADVISER (GENERAL)
Agency
Defense Finance and Accounting Service
Announcement Number
IN-12791920-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
12
13
2. Are you a retired Federal employee receiving an annuity from the Office of Personnel Management? NOTE: If you answered yes to this question, attach a copy of your retirement Standard Form 50 to your application.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former (within last five-years) Executive Branch political appointee; Schedule C excepted service appointee (confidential, policy or transitional role), or non-career or limited appointee in the Senior Executive Service (SES)?

Agencies must request OPM approval to appoint the following current or former (within five-years) Executive Branch political appointees to permanent competitive service, non-political excepted service, or career SES positions:
https://www.opm.gov/FAQs/QA.aspx?fid=023f2059-dff7-4307-89b4-c553c218af1d&pid=08248d29-d26e-44b6-9988-57655358d509
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires regular on-site attendance at the designated DFAS location in Indianapolis, IN. As a condition of employment, selected applicants must be willing and able to report to the worksite on a regular basis, as determined by the agency's needs.
 A. I understand the above requirement and am able to report to the worksite on a regular basis according to the needs of the agency.
 B. I am NOT able and/or willing to report to the worksite. As a result, I understand I will no longer be considered for this position.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
5. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
7. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
8. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
9. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please accurately identify your level of training or experience when completing this questionnaire. Your responses will be evaluated and verified based on your submitted resume. Ensure that your resume accurately describes the level of education and/or experience claimed in the assessment questionnaire. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. By continuing in the application process, I acknowledge that my self-assessment questionnaire score may be reduced, and I may lose consideration for this position if the work experience described in my resume does not support my responses to the assessment questionnaire.
1. To qualify for this position you must meet the basic requirement described below. (You MUST submit copies of your proof of education; failure to submit required documents by the close of the announcement may result in an Ineligible rating.)

 A. I possess a law degree (L.L.B. or J.D.) from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association and am an active member in good standing of a state, territory, of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico bar.
 B. I do not meet the above requirement.
2. From the descriptions below, select the letter that corresponds to the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Attorney-Adviser (General) at the GS-09 grade level. Select only one letter for each item.
 A. I possess a law degree (L.L.B. or J.D.) from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association and am an active member in good standing of a state, territory, of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico bar.
 B. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
3. From the descriptions below, select the letter that corresponds to the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Attorney-Adviser (General) at the GS-11 grade level. Select only one letter for each item.
 A. I have one year of professional legal experience.
 B. I completed the second professional law degree (LL.M.) with one full academic year of graduate study.
 C. I have successfully completed all of the requirements of superior law student work or activities as demonstrated by one of the following: Academic standing in the upper third of the attorney's law school graduating class; or Work or achievement of significance on the attorney's law school's official law reviews or journals; or Special high-level honors for academic excellence in law school (e.g., membership in the Order of the Coif, winning of a moot court competition, or membership on the moot court team that represents the attorney's law school in competition with other law schools); or Full-time or continuous participation in a legal aid program as opposed to one-time, intermittent or casual participation; or Significant summer law-office clerk experience; or Other equivalent evidence of clearly superior achievement. (You MUST submit transcripts or proof of education and any other applicable documentation to verify your claim.)
 D. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
4. From the descriptions below, select the letter that corresponds to the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Attorney-Adviser (General) at the GS-12 grade level. Select only one letter for each item.
 A. I have at least two years of professional legal experience (at or equivalent to the GS-11 level).
 B. I possess the second professional law degree (LL. M.) plus 1 year of professional legal experience (at or equivalent to the GS-11 level) .
 C. I possess advanced educational attainments substantially beyond those required for work at the GS-11 or equivalent level that clearly indicates ability to perform work of the type to be assigned. For example, education that included courses directly pertinent to the work of the agency and that enables me to step into complex legal work characteristic of the GS-12 or equivalent level with the ability to operate with the degree of independence and responsibility typical of that level.
 D. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
5. From the descriptions below, select the letter that corresponds to the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Attorney-Adviser (General) at the GS-13 grade level. Select only one letter for each item.
 A. I meet the basic requirements AND have such professional legal experience in excess of 2 years that is commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position.
 B. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.)? Do you understand that the information provided may be investigated? Do you understand that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with your application may be grounds for not hiring you or for firing you after you begin work? Do you also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected