Position Title
HELICOPTER FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR/EVALUATOR (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12803581-AR-25-206 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Friday, October 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (AASF #2) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (AASF #2) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as a Warrant (CW2-CW4)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-13 Helicopter Flight Instructor/Evaluator.
 I HAVE 1) a competent understanding of the occupation’s basic principles and concepts; AND 2) a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade (or a comparable military rank) immediately below the next higher level.
 I DO NOT HAVE either of the above experience.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-13 Helicopter Flight Instructor/Evaluator.
 I HAVE 1) at least two years specialized competencies in operating a specific main-frame military aircraft, mission planning, and mission preparation; 2) experience in reviewing and analyzing mission tasking, intelligence, and weather information; 3) experience in filing flight plans and conducting crew briefings; 4) experience in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, and equipment assessments; 5) experience in performing or supervising work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling, search and rescue operations or surveillance and reconnaissance; 6) competent in conducting or supervising the training of crew members in simple to complex mission specific tasks; 7) experience in developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and advising commanders; 8) knowledge in flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, mission tactics, and operating procedures; 9) experience in the unit flying, explosive, and ground safety programs in accordance with Department of Defense, Department of the Army, National Guard Bureau, and/or Occupational Safety and Health Administration policies, regulations, and directives.
 I DO NOT have the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙