Position Title
TRANSITION ASSISTANCE SPECIALIST T32
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
AZ-12752671-25-SW-25-074T Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, June 18, 2025 to Friday, August 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. This position is in the Arizona Army National Guard and requires membership with the Arizona Army National Guard. This position is open to the U.S. Armed Forces and those eligible in becoming a member with the Arizona Army National Guard. 

Are you currently a member or eligible in becoming a member of the Arizona Army National Guard?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you possess the rank of:
Enlisted: SSG/E6 - SFC-E7
Warrant Officer: WO1/W1 - CW2/W2
Officer: 2LT/O1 - 1LT/O2
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you possess an Army MOS or Army Branch qualified.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you possess a secret security clearance?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Must have at least 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Experience, education or training in program or managerial experience in a type of work or a combination of functions directly related to the position to be filled or in comparable work or functions. Experience developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operations. Experience in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedures. Experience preparing written communications and oral presentations.

Do you meet the above qualification standard?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Respond to all statements and questions. These statements and questions allow applicants to highlight their Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs) which are applicable to the position for which you are applying. If it is necessary to limit the number of applicants for a position, these KSAs will be used to determine the "Best Qualified".  For each KSA please identify below in the space provided how you have either demonstrated the KSA or have shown the potential to acquire them. Give specific examples describing related project, details, work assignments, outside activities, and the time frames involved in each. If you do not answer these statements and questions an accurate evaluation of your qualifications may not be possible. This may result in your application not being certified.
1. Knowledge of, and skill in applying a wide range of U.S. Codes and U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense (DoD), Department of Army (DA), Department of Air Force (DAF), and National Guard Bureau (NGB) laws, regulations, policies, and precedents sufficient to develop, implement and manage a comprehensive Transition Assistance Advisor Program and provide state level counseling of Veterans Affairs, TRICARE entitlements, health/life insurance, burial benefits, Social Security benefits, etc. Requires the knowledge and skill in analyzing complex issues/problems, performing intense research to determine eligibility and coverage of specific entitlements, and resolve complex problems and issues when guidelines are not specific.
2. Thorough knowledge of the various military and family benefit and entitlement programs, available to military personnel and families such as Veterans Benefits, TRICARE Military Health System etc.
3. Knowledge of all military benefits and programs such as Veteran Affairs, health, compensation and pay, education, vocational rehabilitation, life insurance, home loans, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid health benefits and burial benefits.
4. Knowledge of the rules and procedures that apply to the National Guard traditional and full-time employees, i.e., dual status (DS) Active Guard Reserve (AGR), Active Duty Operational Support (ADOS), Title 10, Title 32, retirees, etc.
5. Skill in oral and written communication techniques sufficient to develop and deliver transition assistance briefings. Knowledge of training concepts and practices. Written and oral skill in developing and presenting entitlement related programs and policies to management and Guard/family members, retirees, etc., and assist them in gaining acceptance and understanding of findings and recommendations.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Must have at least 1 year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Experience, education or training in program or managerial experience in a type of work or a combination of functions directly related to the position to be filled or in comparable work or functions. Experience developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operations. Experience in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedures. Experience preparing written communications and oral presentations.

Do you meet the above qualification standards?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected