Position Title
ATTORNEY ADVISOR
Agency
Small Business Administration
Announcement Number
MP-25-PDC-12768498 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 5, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Merit Promotion and VEOA Candidates: You may be eligible to be considered competitively if you meet any of the following: You are a current, permanent (non-temporary) civilian employee on a competitive service appointment in a Federal agency or a former civilian Federal employee who achieved Career or Career-Conditional status with reinstatement eligibility, or a VEOA eligible; (YOU MUST SUBMIT ADEQUATE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION, SUCH AS SF-50s SHOWING TENURE, GRADE, FULL PERFORMANCE LEVEL, TIME-IN-GRADE; DD-214 OR OTHER PROOF OF MILITARY SERVICE; ETC.).

Do you meet one of the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities listed below: (THIS IS A MANDATORY QUESTION: You must answer "Yes" or "No"  below in order to receive proper consideration).
I am a current Federal employee with career or career-conditional status.
I am a former Federal employee with career status.
I am a former Federal employee with career-conditional status who left Federal service within the past three years.
I am a former Federal employee with career-conditional status AND I am entitled to Veterans' Preference.
I am eligible to apply under the Veterans' Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA).
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
4. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
• are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who has been issued orders for a permanent change of station (PCS)? If yes, confirm you are indicated on the PCS orders; and that you:
• have been married to the military member on or prior to the date of your spouse's PCS orders;
• are relocating with your spouse to the new duty location; AND,
• have not previously been appointed using this authority under these orders.

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit a copy of the PCS orders indicating you are authorized to relocate on those orders.

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you meet one of the following Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities:
• Disabled veteran receiving 30% or more disability compensation from the VA;
• Transfer or reinstatement eligible: current Federal or former employee with career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced; or,
• Individual eligible under other non-competitive appointment authorities such as: Veterans Recruitment Authority; Military spouses under E.O. 13473; Certain former overseas employees; Present and former Peace Corps, Vista or Action volunteers; Former White House staff; Present and former Foreign Service officers and employees; Certain National Guard technicians; Schedule A; OPM Interchange Agreement and Other Miscellaneous Authorities.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documents. For example, a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service; a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50); etc. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
• served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
• are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
TIG
1. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for temporary promotion into this position. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level. Please provide an SF-50 to prove your claim.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level.
 C. Not Applicable. Time in Grade does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level.
2.

Applicants who have permanently held a position with a full performance level equivalent to GS-13 or higher in the competitive service can be referred for selection without competition under our agency merit promotion procedures. Please provide an SF-50 to prove your claim. Without an SF-50 as proof, we cannot apply non-competitive rules. Military rank, details, and temporary promotions do not count.

The SF-50 submitted MUST indicate the same full performance level (or higher) equivalent to the full performance level shown on this vacancy, career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2), and the status as a competitive service employee (Position Occupied is 1).

Your response to the following question will be used to determine whether you can be categorized as a non-competitive eligible.

Have you ever held (or do you currently hold) a competitive service position on a permanent basis in the federal government with a full performance level equivalent to GS-13 or higher?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Are you a current member in good standing of the bar of a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?

 A. Yes, I am a current member in good standing of the bar of a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
 B. No, I am not a current member in good standing of the bar of a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
2. I have successfully completed a full course of study in school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have the first professional law degree (LLB or JD).

 A. Yes
 B. No
WARNING STATEMENT: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. The following questions will be used to determine your minimum qualifications for this position.
3. Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for the GS-13 Lead Attorney Advisor. Make sure your resume supports the response that you select. Mark only 1 response.
 A. I have at least two years (104 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the GS-12 level in the Federal service. This experience must demonstrate all of the following: Researching, analyzing, and explaining complex statutory, regulatory, and administrative law issues; Developing strategies and arguments in preparation for presentation of cases in administrative proceedings; Writing clear, concise, persuasive legal documents for various audiences; Making effective oral presentations/arguments before administrative third parties; AND Apply statutes and regulations to recommend guidance and/or course of action regarding legal matters.
 B. My experience are not reflected in any of the above statements.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) Understand this warning; 2) Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
4. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
NOTE: It is the applicant's responsibility to verify that information entered, uploaded, or faxed (i.e., resume, veterans preference documentation, assessment questions and answers, and SF 50s) is accurate and received by the agency.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected