Position Title
Supervisory Medical Support Assistant - Ward Administration
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
NC-12811578-26-EC Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 7, 2025 to Friday, October 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.


1.
Do you possess six (6) months experience of clerical, office, customer service or administrative other work that indicates the ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skill necessary to perform the duties of the Medical Support Assistant?
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you successfully completed one (1) year above high school? This education must have been obtained in an accredited technical school, junior college, college or university. One year of full-time academic study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 Yes
 No


3.
Have you successfully completed an equivalent combination of experience and education that is qualifying for entry level?(TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


5.
Do possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level, leading or supervising MSAs or equivalent administrative patient support staff in a medical inpatient, outpatient or interdisciplinary setting. Specialized experience must include the ability to organize work, set priorities, and delegate tasks/responsibilities in order to meet deadlines; skill in communicating with individuals in order to obtain the desired effect, ensuring compliance with established policies and regulations; ability to provide staff development and training; ability to manage staffing requirements, manage priorities, and coordinate work in order to complete duties in an accurate and timely manner; ability to follow-up on pending issues and demonstrating an understanding of the impact of incomplete work; and the ability to review and monitor data to ensure all reports are complete and accurate; advanced knowledge of managing a clinic; advanced knowledge of policies and procedures associated with operational activities that affect patient flow, patient care, and the revenue process; and advanced knowledge of medical terminology.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙