Position Title
Medical Records Administrator
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12820563-26-CB Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 21, 2025 to Friday, October 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about your eligibility and minimum qualifications related to this position. Please read each part and answer appropriately.


US CITIZENSHIP: Applicants must be a citizen of the United States. Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified candidates in accordance with 38 U.S.C. ? 7407(a). Please select the answer that represents you most accurately.


1.
Are you a US citizen?

 Yes, I am A US Citizen.
 No, I am not a US Citizen, and therefore understand that I am not eligible to apply for this position.


ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f), Medical Records Administrators must be proficient in basic written and spoken English to perform the duties of this position in.


2.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes, I am proficient in written and spoken English.
 No, I am not proficient in written and spoken English, and therefore understand that I am not qualified for this position.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: Please select the answer that best describes your experience and/or education for this position. (Please include detailed examples on your resume to support your response below.).


3.
To meet the basic requirements for this position, you must possess the following experience and/or education:

Three years of [creditable] experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of [health] records and health information systems [demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology,] medical records [procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative, and legal requirements of health care delivery] systems. OR,

Successful completion of a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university [recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology. OR,

Equivalent combinations of [creditable] experience and education that equals 100 percent may be used to meet basic requirements. [For example, two years above high school from an accredited college or university, with 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management, plus one year and six months of creditable experience that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems meets an equivalent combination.

Please select from the statements below which accurately describes your education and/or experience as a Medical Records Administrator.

 I possess 3 years of creditable experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems [demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology,] medical records [procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative, and legal requirements of health care delivery] systems.
 I possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university [recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology.
 I possess an equivalent combination of [creditable] experience and education that equals 100 percent to meet basic requirements.
 No, I do not meet the requirement set forth above and I understand that I am not qualified for this position.


4.
CERTIFICATION: Persons hired or reassigned to MRA positions in the GS-0669 series in VHA must possess one of the following certifications. Do you qualify based on one of the following?
(1) Coding Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. OR,
(2) HIM Certification through AHIMA. OR,
(3) Health Data Analyst Certification through AHIMA.

 Yes, I possess the Coding Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
 Yes, I possess the HIM Certification through AHIMA.
 Yes, I possess the Health Data Analyst Certification through AHIMA.
 No, I do not meet the requirement set forth above and I understand that I am not qualified for this position.


GRADE DETERMINATION: In addition to minimum qualifications, each applicant must meet the grade requirements set forth below in order to be considered Minimally Qualified at the grade level offered in this vacancy announcement.


5.
EXPERIENCE FOR GS-09: (Clinical) (Developmental) - Experience/Education Requirement: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-09 do you meet one of the below options which demonstrates the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?

 Skill in [performance] and process improvement [techniques to develop and implement new or improved solutions in health information management.
 Ability to advise management and staff, at various levels, regarding health record documentation requirements and health information management practices based on current industry standards, policies, statues, laws, and regulations.
 Ability to plan, justify, develop, evaluate, assess, monitor, and advise on current health information management processes and recommend changes in policies or procedures.
 Ability to determine and evaluate compliance with legal, ethical, and regulatory guidelines and accrediting bodies, as they apply to health information management.
 Ability to acquire, manage, analyze, interpret, and transform data into accurate, consistent, and meaningful information.
 Yes, I possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09) that demonstrates all the KSAs described at that level, and the demonstrated KSAs mentioned above.
 Yes, I possess education equivalent to three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited university or college in the field of health information management AND the demonstrated KSAs mentioned above.
 No, I do not possess either the experience or the education mentioned above. I understand that I am not qualified for this position.


6.
EXPERIENCE FOR GS-11: In applying for the Medical Records Administrator position, do you possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-9) that demonstrates all the KSAs described at that level, OR
Education equivalent to three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited university or college in the field of health information management.
AND the following demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):

 Skill in [performance] and process improvement [techniques to develop and implement new or improved solutions in health information management.
 Ability to advise management and staff, at various levels, regarding health record documentation requirements and health information management practices based on current industry standards, policies, statues, laws, and regulations.
 Ability to plan, justify, develop, evaluate, assess, monitor, and advise on current health information management processes and recommend changes in policies or procedures.
 Ability to determine and evaluate compliance with legal, ethical, and regulatory guidelines and accrediting bodies, as they apply to health information management.
 Ability to acquire, manage, analyze, interpret, and transform data into accurate, consistent, and meaningful information.
 Yes, I possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09) that demonstrates all the KSAs described at that level, and the demonstrated KSAs mentioned above.
 Yes, I possess education equivalent to three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited university or college in the field of health information management AND the demonstrated KSAs mentioned above.
 No, I do not possess either the experience or the education mentioned above. I understand that I am not qualified for this position.


FEDERAL EMPLOYEE: SF-50 Reminder - Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee. An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade. (limit characters).


CERTIFICATION OF UNDERSTANDING- Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and behalf, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, commit deception, or fraud in this application and its surrounding materials, or any document, or interview associated with the examination process, my eligibility may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No", or providing no response to this item, will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided above in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


TRANSCRIPTS REMINDER: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙