Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Fitness)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12810997 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 2, 2025 to Wednesday, October 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Recreation Assistant Fitness position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
Describe your years of experience with basic math skills (cash handling and inventory)

 Three plus years of documented basic math skills (cash handling and inventory)
 Two to Three years of documented basic math skills (cash handling and inventory)
 One to Two years of documented basic math skills (cash handling and inventory)
 Less than one year of documented basic math skills (cash handling and inventory)
 No documented basic math skills (cash handling and inventory)


2.
Describe your experience dealing in customer service; providing information and services to the patrons
 Three plus years of documented customer service
 Two to Three years of documented customer service
 One to Two years of documented customer service
 Less than one year of documented customer service
 No documented customer service


3.
How many years of experience do you have working in recreational fitness, sports or aquatic programs?
 Three plus years of working in a DoD athletic program
 Three plus years of working in a Civilian sector athletic program
 Two to Three years of working in a DoD athletic program
 Two to Three years of working in a Civilian sector athletic program
 One to Two years of working in either a DoD or Civilian athletic program
 Less than one year of working in either a DoD or Civilian athletic program
 No documented experience in either a DoD or Civilian athletic program


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙