Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Spcecialist
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
HUM-AA-12797954-25-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Friday, September 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND meet one (1) of the following?
Retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30% or more; or
Rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) or have a disability determination from a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more.
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent); AND
Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating of at least 30% or more (NOTE: overall percentage must be clearly shown);
 SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 6)
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the spouse's active-duty status (i.e., spouse's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) or Active Duty military orders, or official documentation from the Armed Forces branch that verifies spouse's active status). Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) extends the temporary provision in which spouses are not required to relocate with active-duty service members on PCS orders. The sunset date of this provision is December 31, 2028.
-OR-

Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100%, or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the spouse's military service (i.e., DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent); and
Verification of the service member's 100% disability (i.e., Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying the overall compensable service-connected disability rating of 100%) NOTE: The overall percentage must be clearly shown; and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 7; 7a and Page 2 - Answer questions 1-7)
-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces who was killed while in active-duty status?

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and
Verification of the member's death while on active duty (i.e., DD-1300, Report of Casualty or equivalent); and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (Page 1 - block #1-4; 8; 8a/8b)
NOTE: A spouse is not eligible if not married to the veteran at the time of death or have since remarried.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who has never held the highest grade level (or equivalent) for the position is being announced?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
The highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50) and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Actions, SF-50, include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who currently holds or has previously held the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential (or equivalent) for the position being announced?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50)
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm the following:  
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which will be or were separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which will be or were separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, notice of (proposed) removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside the local commuting area (e.g., a directed reassignment or a change in duty station), notice of compensable work-related injury or illness termination and agency certification of inability to place, or notice of disability annuity termination; AND
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; AND
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee on a time-limited appointment in the competitive service of a Land Management agency? If yes, confirm the following:

As a current/former employee of a Land Management Agency you MUST work or have worked for one the following:
The Department of Agriculture's Forest Service; or
The Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Reclamation.
AND
Are/were on a temporary or term appointment (time-limited) in the competitive service; and
Worked for a land management agency under one (1) or more time-limited appointments for a period or periods totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years; and
Received acceptable performance ratings during each period of service.
Note:  Former land management employees most recent separation must be for reasons other than misconduct or performance AND must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
ALL Appointment AND Resignation/Termination, SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), totaling more than 24 months that reflects all the following:
Temporary or Term appointment (Tenure Code is "0" or "3" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34)
Performance appraisal showing the official rating of record and signed by a supervisor, for each qualifying period of temporary or term appointment; or, if one is unavailable, provide a statement of performance for each period of service. The statement must specify the dates for each employment period and level of performance (dates should match the dates on the SF-50s).
For more information review Land management, Land Management Eligible, and Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a current Federal employee in the excepted service and/or in other merit systems of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM)?  If yes, confirm the following:
Currently serving under an appointment that is not time-limited or have been involuntarily separated from such appointment without personal cause within the preceding year; and
Current serving in or have been involuntarily separated from a position covered by an interchange agreement; and 
Served continuously for at least one (1) year under the interchange agreement.
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.

-OR-

Are you a current Federal employee of a Federal Agency covered under other miscellaneous appointing authorities not regulated by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Other Miscellaneous Authorities include the following?
Postal Career Service Employees
Postal Rate Commission Employees
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employees
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employees
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify eligibility, you must submit your most recent, Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, and the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting eligibility under the OPM Interchange Agreement or Other Miscellaneous Authorities.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you a FORMER competitive-service employee of the Federal Government OR veterans' preference eligible, including those with derived preference, who PREVIOUSLY HELD a career or career-conditional (non-time-limited) appointment?  

To verify eligibility, you must submit your most recent separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
A career appointment (Tenure Code is 1 in block 24) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); or
A career-conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 2 in block 24) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34)*; and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent separation SF-50)
If claiming veterans' preference with eligibility, you must submit the following:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service and/or
Official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating of at least 30% or more (NOTE: overall percentage must be clearly shown); and
SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference 
*If you do not have veterans' preference or did not acquire career tenure, you are only eligible to be reinstated within 3 years after the date of your separation.

For more information review: Reinstatement Eligibility
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability or a psychiatric disability that qualifies for a Schedule A hiring authority?

To verify eligibility, you must submit a disability letter on official stationery/letterhead with an official signature. The letter should clearly state full name and that a person with a disability and are eligible for appointment under Schedule A hiring authority as outlined in 5 CFR Section 213.3102(u). Such documentation must be from one of the below sources:
A licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional duly certified by a State, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory, to practice medicine); or
A licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (State or private); or
Any Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.
A sample letter (PDF file) can be found on the OPM website.

For more information, review Individuals with Disabilities resources
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a Veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and meet one (1) of the following?
Entitled to veterans' preference, including those with derived preference; or
A veteran separated or are expected to be separated within the next 120 days, from the armed forces after three (3) or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. Veterans who were released shortly before completing a 3-year tour are considered eligible.
To verify eligibility, you must submit:
DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4 or equivalent) showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active-duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service; or
Future Military Retirees/Separatees submit a certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification*.
Disabled Veterans submit certification letter from the Armed Forces that you will be discharged or released from active duty within 120 days from the date on the certification* AND an official document from the Department of Veterans Affairs or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying overall compensable service-connected disability rating AND/OR SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference (SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C).
*This certification letter must indicate dates of active service, rank/grade, expected character of service (i.e., honorable or general) and type of separation (i.e., separation or retirement). Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

"Active service" defined in title 37, United States Code, means active duty in the uniformed services and includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, full-time National Guard duty, and attendance, while in the active service, at a school designated as a service school by law or by the Secretary of the military department concerned.

For more information, review Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Human Resources Specialist position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.

1. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Human Resources Specialist at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which includes supervising and leading a team by assigning tasks, setting performance standards, training staff, or managing resources; evaluating organizational operations and workforce trends to develop performance management and/or employee relations goals and strategies; providing guidance and assistance to senior leadership, supervisors and employees on matters related to performance management and/or employee relations such as conflict resolution, disciplinary actions, and employee development; interpreting Federal laws, regulations to resolve performance management and/or employee relations issues to ensure compliance with applicable laws and agency guidelines.
 B. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. From the list below select all of the statements that describe your experience with performance management duties.
 A. Advising management on appropriate procedures and practices involved in developing employee performance.
 B. Providing management advisory services in coaching, counseling, recognizing top performers, and taking appropriate actions on performance issues.
 C. Administering the employee appraisal program to include a comprehensive annual and ongoing evaluation of the program.
 D. Ensuring that mandatory requirements such as employee performance plan issuance, mid-year reviews, and final reviews are met.
 E. Advising managers and supervisors on evaluation, feedback and recognition techniques.
 F. Advising managers and supervisors on establishment of critical elements and standards, aligning employee performance plans with organizational goals.
 G. Advising managers and supervisors on performance requirements and the overall adequacy and quality of employee performance plans.
 H. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Do you have experience in the performance management program, including, but not limited to, providing training on performance standards, and providing daily advice and assistance to managers on all aspects of performance management?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Knowledge of performance management policies, principles, concepts and practices in order to serve as a focal point for technical guidance on administrating performance management programs.
 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
5. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience interpreting, applying and explaining perfonnance management laws and regulations to supervisors.
 A. I have not had training or experience in perfonning this task.
 B. I have had training in performing this task, but have not yet perfonned this task on the job.
 C. I have perfonned this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or a senior employee.
 D. I have perfonned this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or a senior employee.
6. From the list below select all of the responses that describe your experience managing employee performance and conduct issues or employee grievances and complaints.
 A. Heard and resolved complaints from individual employees and referred group grievances and more serious unresolved complaints to a higher-level manager.
 B. Heard and resolved group grievances or serious employee complaints.
 C. Counseled employees on behavior and implemented minor disciplinary measures such as warnings, reprimands, and recommending other action in more serious cases.
 D. Reviewed and approved serious disciplinary actions (e.g., suspensions).
 E. Developed performance standards to track and evaluate the progress and quality of the work of employees with demonstrated performance problems.
 F. Initiated and completed performance-based corrective actions.
 G. I have not directly managed employee performance and conduct issues or grievances and complaints.
 H. None of the above
7. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience developing recommendations to enhance the effectiveness of operations, practices, and procedures.
 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have participated in brainstorming sessions seeming to identity ways to enhance the effectiveness of operations, practices, and procedures.
 C. I have independently developed and presented new operations, practices, and procedures to promote more efficient and effective program operations.
 D. I have led a workgroup charged with evaluating operations, practices, and procedures, and made formal recommendations to superiors of our findings.
8. From the list below select all of the statements that describe the technical expertise you have provided to managers and supervisors on employee relations.
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
9. From the list below select the statement that best describes your experience performing research in order to develop and update employee relation policies.
 A. I have no education, training, or experience performing these tasks.
 B. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed them on the job.
 C. I have performed these tasks on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed these tasks independently and as a regular part of my job.
10. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience supervising a team of subordinate employees.
 A. I am responsible for supervising and/or leading a team of individuals and making recommendations to management on any conflict resolution or disciplinary issues that arise.
 B. I directly supervise and/or lead a team of individuals, guide their day-to-day operations, provide conflict resolution on administrative matters, and make recommendations to management on any disciplinary actions that need to be taken.
 C. I directly supervise and/or lead a team of individuals and am responsible for making decisions on technical administrative issues, independently provide conflict resolution on all administrative matters, and initiate disciplinary actions on subordinate employees.
 D. None of the above.
11. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience reporting to higher level officials on program status and problems that require resolution or changes to plans and schedules.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, both formally and informally, on program status and problems requiring changes to plans and schedules.
 C. I have given formal briefings or prepared formal written reports to higher level officials in my organization regarding program status and problems requiring changes to plans and schedules, and I have provided concrete recommendations for resolving the problems.
 D. I have prepared formal written reports and conducted presentations to higher level officials within and outside of my organization regarding program status, including recommendations for resolving programs or changing plans and schedules to prevent future problems.
12. From the list below select all of the team lead duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. Instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 D. Recommended individuals for appointment, promotion, and/or reassignment.
 E. Worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 F. Resolved office conflicts through mediation and/or other forms of alternative dispute resolution.
 G. Resolved office conflicts by providing written guidance.
 H. Coached employees on performance issues.
 I. None of the above
13. From the list below select the response that best describes your highest level of experience in supervision attained in a permanent assignment.
 A. I am currently a second level supervisor or have previously held a second level supervisory position responsible for managing several HR programs through subordinate supervisors.
 B. I am currently a first level supervisor or have previously held a first level supervisory position responsible for approving leave, evaluating performance, recommending/granting awards, recommending/issuing performance and conduct actions, and selecting or recommending the selection of individuals for employment.
 C. I am currently a team lead or have previously held a team leader position responsible for assigning and monitoring the work of a team, recommending training and/or awards for others, articulating goals and outcomes and motivating others to achieve them.
 D. I currently or previously have provided guidance and assistance to others performing the same or similar tasks.
 E. I am currently a program manager or have previously held a program manager position responsible for managing program accomplishments through others not directly under my supervision.
 F. I am currently performing or previously performed HR work independently and made recommendations to improve work products and/or processes.
 G. None of the above.
14. From the list below select the response(s) that best reflect the leadership functions you have performed for a project or program.
 A. Served as a supervisor, team leader, or project coordinator (formally, informally, in an acting or in a temporary capacity).
 B. Coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results.
 C. Evaluated the effectiveness of a complete project or program goal.
 D. Followed-up with colleagues, team members, and others to ensure timeliness in meeting milestones.
 E. Planned work assignments to be assigned to colleagues, team members, and others.
 F. Reported progress to senior management.
 G. Resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among colleagues, team members, and others.
 H. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness.
 I. None of the above
15. From the list below select the response that best describes your level of experience ensuring human capital initiatives and strategies support mission-critical competencies, and are linked with the organization's mission and goals.
 A. I have limited experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had exposure to this task but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this task across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this task independently across a wide range of situations. I seek guidance in carrying out this task only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this task. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this task on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
16. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describes your experience analyzing information from multiple sources to make recommendations for management strategies.
 A. Interpret human resources regulations and policies to make recommendations to management about updating or creating new human resources programs.
 B. Analyze administrative programs that have multiple interconnected functions, challenges, and priorities to make recommendations to management regarding human resources management.
 C. Make inferences about proposed legislation and their impact on human resources functions for an organization.
 D. Develop alternative solutions to resolve human resources management problems, particularly where there are shifting or conflicting needs in an organization.
 E. Develop human resources policies that support legal compliance and an organization's mission.
 F. None of the above
17. Please select the response that best describes your experience directing human resources initiatives and activities, identifying new or modified policies, methods, systems, long and short-term objectives, and developing policies for bureau or agency-wide implementation.
 A. I have no experience in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability.
 B. I am developing in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and performing work with the direct guidance and supervision of a higher-level expert who reviews my work products and provides coaching and direction.
 C. I am considered competent in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and have performed work under the guidance and supervision on an occasional basis of a higher-level expert reviewing work upon completion.
 D. I am considered competent in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and have performed work under the guidance and supervision on an occasional basis of a higher-level expert reviewing work upon completion.
 E. I am considered proficient in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and have performed work on a regular and recurring basis with occasional higher-level review.
 F. I am considered an expert in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and have provided training and instruction to others.
 G. I am considered an expert in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and have supervised others in the performance of work and accepting or rejecting their work.
18. Please select the response that best describes your experience developing overall staffing guidelines and a strategic workforce planning roadmap that focuses on identifying strategies to close gaps to promote operational efficiency and strategic progress.
 A. I have no experience in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability.
 B. I am developing in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and performing work with the direct guidance and supervision of a higher-level expert who reviews my work products and provides coaching and direction.
 C. I am considered competent in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and have performed work under the guidance and supervision on an occasional basis of a higher-level expert reviewing work upon completion.
 D. I am considered proficient in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and have performed work on a regular and recurring basis with occasional higher-level review.
 E. I am considered an expert in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and have provided training and instruction to others.
 F. I am considered an expert in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and have supervised others in the performance of work and accepting or rejecting their work.
19. Please select the response that best describes your experience with identifying organizational goals, objectives and achievements.
 A. I have no experience in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability.
 B. I am developing in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and performing work with the direct guidance and supervision of a higher-level expert who reviews my work products and provides coaching and direction.
 C. I am considered competent in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and have performed work under the guidance and supervision on an occasional basis of a higher-level expert reviewing work upon completion.
 D. I am considered proficient in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and have performed work on a regular and recurring basis with occasional higher-level review.
 E. I am considered an expert in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and have provided training and instruction to others.
 F. I am considered an expert in the use of this knowledge, skill, or ability and have supervised others in the performance of work and accepting or rejecting their work.
20. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected