Position Title
CLC Registered Nurse
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12771307-25-AR Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 28, 2025 to Thursday, August 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
In order to qualify for this position as a Nurse, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as the additional grade-level requirements. Applicants pending the completion of educational requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until the education requirements are met. Applicants that meet the education requirement but do not possess a nurse registration yet may be hired at the entry step of the grade and level applicable to the completed nursing education as a Graduate Nurse Technician on a 120-day temporary appointment while actively pursuing licensure.
1. ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. All Registered Nurses must be a Graduate of a school of professional nursing approved by the appropriate accrediting agency and accredited by one of the following accrediting bodies at the time the program was completed by the applicant: The Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN) or The Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE); OR
Individuals attending a master's level bridge program in nursing who have completed coursework equivalent to a bachelor's level degree in Nursing may have opportunity to become registered as a nurse with a state licensing board prior to completion of the bridge program. Upon achievement of a State license, the individual may be appointed on temporary basis and later converted to a permanent appointment upon successful completion and graduation from the bridge program; OR
In cases of graduates of foreign schools of professional nursing, possession of a current, full, active, and unrestricted registration will meet the requirement for graduation from an approved school of professional nursing to warrant an appointment as a Nurse who has completed an associated degree/entry level Nursing education program. Credit for foreign nursing education higher that associate degree/entry level requires a formal degree equivalency validation from a recognized equivalency evaluation accepted by VA such as International Consultants of Delaware (ICD).

Do you meet the above requirements?
 A. Yes, I meet the education requirement or am a current VHA nurse that meets the grandfathering provision.
 B. No
 C. No, I am pending graduation from an approved, accredited school of professional nursing.
3. Provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received your RN education.

Name of Academic Institution
City and State
Level of Education (diploma, ASN, BSN, MSN, etc.)
Month and Year conferred (or expected completion date)
4. Do you possess a current, full, active and unrestricted registration as a registered nurse in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e. Puerto Rico) of the U.S. or in the District of Columbia.?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, I am pending RN registration.
5. Provide the following information regarding your RN licensure. If you are not licensed yet, indicate the expected date.

Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date
The following Scope, Education and Dimension criteria must be met in determining the grade assignment of candidates, and if appropriate, the level within a grade. 
Applicants pending completion of the degree requirements that meet the other grade-level requirements should select "Yes" as they maybe tentatively selected, but may not be hired until their degree is conferred.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Nurse I, Level 1 Requirements - Do you meet the following?
(a) Scope: Delivers fundamental, knowledge-based care to assigned clients while developing technical competencies.
(b) Education: An Associate Degree (ADN) or Diploma in Nursing, with no additional professional nursing required.
(c) Dimension Requirements: Nurses at Nurse I, Level 1 are expected to meet the following dimension requirements:
Practice. Knowledge of professional nursing practice and the ability to apply the nursing process (assessment, diagnosis, outcome identification, planning implementation and evaluation) with close supervision.
Veteran/Patient Driven Care. Knowledge of Veteran/patient driven care, patient experience, satisfaction, and safety.
Leadership. Communicates, collaborates, and utilizes leadership principles to perform as an effective member of the interprofessional team.
Professional Development. Incorporates educational resources/opportunities and self-evaluation for professional growth.
Evidence-Based Practice/Research. Awareness of evidence-based practice/research to improve quality of care and resource utilization.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Nurse I, Level 2 Requirements - Do you meet the following?
(a) Scope: Demonstrates integration of biopsychosocial concepts, cognitive skills, and technically competent practice in providing care to clients with basic or complex.
(b) Education: An ADN or Diploma in Nursing AND 1 year of specialized nursing experience equivalent to Nurse I, Level 1 OR a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) with no additional professional nursing experience required.
(c) Dimension Requirements: Nurses at Nurse I, Level 2 are expected to meet the following dimension requirements:
Practice. Delivers professional practice using the nursing process (assessment, diagnosis, outcome identification, planning implementation and evaluation) with general supervision.
Veteran/Patient Driven Care. Provides Veteran/patient driven care by optimizing the patient experience, satisfaction and/or safety for assigned patients.
Leadership. Communicates and collaborates as an effective member of the interprofessional team, demonstrating progression from team member to team leader.
Professional Development. Seeks knowledge and learning opportunities that support current nursing practice and self-evaluation.
Evidence-Based Practice/Research. Applies evidence-based practice/research, considering patient preferences to improve quality of care and resource utilization for assigned patients.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Nurse I, Level 3 Requirements - Do you meet the following?
(a) Scope: Demonstrates proficiency in practice based on conscious and deliberate planning. Self-directed in goal setting for managing complex client situations.
(b) Education: An ADN or Diploma in Nursing AND 2 years of professional nursing experience in which one year is equivalent to Nurse I, Level 2; OR a BSN and 1 year of professional nursing experience equivalent to the Nurse I, Level 2; OR a Master's degree in nursing (MSN) and no additional professional nursing experience; OR a Master's degree in a *related field with a BSN and no additional professional nursing experience. *Note: Foreign education programs/degrees are not creditable as related degrees.
(c) Dimension Requirements: Nurses at Nurse I, Level 3 are expected to meet the following dimension requirements:
Practice. Delivers self-directed, professional nursing practice using the nursing process (assessment, diagnosis, outcome identification, planning implementation and evaluation) for complex patients based on conscious and deliberate planning with occasional supervision.
Veteran/Patient Driven Care. Provides and directs others in Veteran/patient driven care by optimizing the patient experience, satisfaction and/or safety for a team of patients.
Leadership. Communicates and collaborates as an effective member of the interprofessional team, demonstrating leadership responsibilities such as team leader/charge nurse.
Professional Development. Shares knowledge and learning opportunities that enhance current nursing practice and self-evaluation for self and others on the team.
Evidence-Based Practice/Research. Applies evidence-based practice/research considering patient preferences, to improve quality of care and resource utilization, participating in established improvement activities.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Nurse II Requirements - Do you meet the following?
(a) Scope: Demonstrates leadership in delivering and improving holistic care through collaborative strategies with others.
(b) Education: A BSN with 2 years of professional nursing equivalent to Nurse I, Level 3; OR an MSN with one year of specialized nursing experience equivalent to Nurse I, Level 3; OR a Master's degree in a *related field with a BSN and one year of specialized nursing experience equivalent to Nurse I, Level 3; OR a Doctoral degree in Nursing with no professional nursing experience; OR a Doctoral degree in a *related field with a BSN with no additional professional nursing experience. *Note: Foreign education programs/degrees are not creditable as related degrees.
(c) Dimension Requirements: Nurses at Nurse II are expected to meet the following dimension requirements:
Practice. Leads professional practice using the nursing process (assessment, diagnosis, outcome identification, planning, implementation, and evaluation) to improve evidence-based and/or data-driven outcomes for an identified patient population and/or specialized areas within immediate practice setting.
Veteran/Patient Driven Care. Improves Veteran/patient driven care by optimizing the patient experience, satisfaction and/or safety for the immediate practice setting.
Leadership. Communicates and collaborates as an effective leader of the interprofessional team, at the expert level, with improved evidence-based and/or data-driven outcomes in the immediate practice setting.
Professional Development. Expands knowledge base and practice evaluation through mentoring, precepting and/or teaching to improve outcomes in the immediate practice setting.
Evidence Based Practice/Research. Leads the integration of evidence-based practice/research with clinical expertise to improve quality of care and resource utilization with improved outcomes for the immediate practice setting.
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Nurse III Requirements - Do you meet the following?
(a) Scope: Executes position responsibilities that demonstrate leadership, experience, and creative approaches to management of complex client care beyond the immediate practice setting.
(b) Educations: MSN and 2 years of specialized nursing experience, one of which is equivalent to Nurse II and meets all dimension requirements for Nurse III; OR a Master's degree in related field with BSN and two years of specialized nursing experience, one of which is equivalent to Nurse II and meets all dimension requirements for Nurse III; OR a Doctoral degree in Nursing with and one year of specialized nursing experience equivalent to Nurse II and meets all dimension requirements for Nurse III; OR a Doctoral degree in a *related field with a BSN and one year of specialized nursing experience equivalent to Nurse II and meets all dimension requirements for Nurse III. *Note: Foreign education programs/degrees are not creditable as related degrees.
(c) Dimension Requirements: Nurses at Nurse III must meet ALL the following dimension requirements:
Practice. Demonstrates expertise in professional practice using the nursing process (assessment, diagnosis, outcome identification, planning, implementation, and evaluation) with improved evidence-based and/or data-driven outcomes beyond the immediate practice setting.
Veteran/Patient Driven Care. Leads initiatives to improve Veteran/patient experience. Satisfaction and/or safety beyond the immediate practice setting.
Leadership. Communicates and collaborates as an effective leader of the interprofessional team, at the expert level, with improved evidence-based and/or data-driven outcomes beyond the immediate practice setting.
Professional Development. Enhances knowledge base and practice evaluation, at the expert level, with improved outcomes beyond the immediate practice setting.
Evidence Based Practice/Research. Leads the identification and integration of evidence-based practice/research with clinical expertise to improve quality of care and resource utilization at the expert level with improved outcomes beyond the immediate practice setting.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected