Position Title
Licensed Practical Nurse
Agency
Armed Forces Retirement Home
Announcement Number
25-AFRH-12757224 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 10, 2025 to Wednesday, July 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
For the GS-07, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: nursing care work in a hospital, outpatient clinic, nursing home, or other supervised medical, nursing, or care facility that provided a practical knowledge of human body structure, and sterile techniques and procedures.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 level as described above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience/education so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
Candidates must be currently licensed to practice as practical or vocational nurses in a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia or must have applied for a license to practice. Applications of candidates possessing a license, must be accompanied by a certified or photostatic copy of the license, a notarized statement attesting to the fact, or a citation of the license number and State issuing it. Non-licensed candidates who have completed their training may be appointed subject to obtaining the required license during the probationary period. Those not licensed must furnish the date on which they applied for a license and the jurisdiction involved. No person appointed pending licensure may be retained beyond the probationary period if licensure has not been attained.
3. Do you have an active and current Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN) license in a state or territory of the U.S. OR have you completed the necessary training to apply for the license?
 A. I have an active and current certification/license. I will provide the license number and the issuing state in the short answer question below.
 B. I have completed the necessary training and applied for a license. However, I have not received the license. I will provide the date of license request and the jurisdiction involved in the short answer question below.
 C. I do not have a license and have not applied to obtain one.
4. If you currently have a license, please provide license number and issuing state. If you have completed all required training for a license, applied for a license and are simply waiting for the application to be returned, then please provide the date of license request. (limit 250 characters)
5. Please select all of the following with which you have experience:
 A. Performing physical assessment and interviewing to collect Resident data.
 B. Administering medications via oral, inter-muscular, subcutaneous, intra-dermal, gastric, topical, rectal, and respiratory routes.
 C. Assigning and directing the work of nursing assistants.
 D. Functioning as a shift leader.
 E. Performing urinary catheterizations.
 F. Formulating and implementing a plan of care established by the healthcare team.
 G. None of the above.
6. Please select from the following with which you have experience observing and communicating changes in Resident conditions. Select all that apply.
 A. Changes in vital signs ( i.e. B/P, temperature and pulse)
 B. Changes in mental status (i.e. memory deficits, slurring of speech, searching for words)
 C. Changes in skin (e.g. redness of skin, pressure sores (Stage I-IV))
 D. Changes in medical status (i.e. sudden loss of consciousness, weakness of extremities, facial drooping, seizures)
 E. Contacts with provider to relay initiated SBAR responses and actions.
 F. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. Do you have experience teaching residents about their illnesses, conditions, and treatments?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you have a current and active Basic Life Support (BLS) certification?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience/education so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit. (limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
10. Do you have experience working in a long-term care or other setting with a geriatric population?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Which of the following have you performed as a regular part of your job duties? Please choose all that apply.
 A. Communicated with professional healthcare staff, physicians, residents, and their families regarding current condition and behavior.
 B. Communicated with residents, their families, nurses, and physicians as well as documenting basic requests/responses.
 C. Provided handoff communication to healthcare staff utilizing SBAR.
 D. Communicated with nurses, members of the health care team, residents, and their families, where you have observed and documented progress/behavior through written, electronic, and verbal reports.
 E. None of the above.
12. Please select from the following whom you have communicated with on a regular basis. 
 A. Residents
 B. Resident's family
 C. Physicians
 D. RNs
 E. Members of the healthcare team
 F. Recreation specialist
 G. Charge Nurse
 H. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected