Position Title
Supervisory General Attorney (Criminal Tax) - Branch Chief - Criminal Tax Division
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCSL-25-12799004 -ATTY Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. East Hartford, CT
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Jacksonville, FL
 D. Miami, FL
 E. Atlanta, GA
 F. Chicago, IL
 G. Downers Grove, IL
 H. Indianapolis, IN
 I. New Orleans, LA
 J. Baltimore, MD
 K. Boston, MA
 L. Saint Paul, MN
 M. Saint Louis, MO
 N. Newark, NJ
 O. Buffalo, NY
 P. New York, NY
 Q. Greensboro, NC
 R. Cincinnati, OH
 S. Independence, OH
 T. Philadelphia, PA
 U. Nashville, TN
 V. Richmond, VA
Current/Former Federal Employees
1. Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 A. Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 B. Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 C. No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.
2. Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with Chief Counsels Directives Manual 39.1.2.6 . Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to placement in this position and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 A. Yes, I am willing to meet this requirement.
 B. No, I am not willing to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. This position is supervisory/managerial as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory/managerial duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory/managerial probation period if not already previously completed?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. NA - 1 Year Supervisory/Managerial Probation period was previously completed
3. Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 A. Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 B. No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.
4. A one year trial period is required for all attorneys, regardless of grade or tenure, who are serving their first year of employment with the Office of Chief Counsel, if not already completed. The one-year trial period begins with the date of appointment to either an attorney (905 series) or law clerk (904 series) position and is completed one year after the date of the appointment. Are you willing to serve a one year trial period if not already previously completed?
 A. Yes
 B. No and understand I will receive no further consideration for this position.
 C. Not Applicable - I have served the required trial period for this position.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question or "Not Applicable." You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
5. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
6. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
7. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
8. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
9. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory General Attorney (Criminal Tax) - Branch Chief position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the qualifications you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory General Attorney (Tax) - Branch Chief at the GS-15 grade level in the Federal Service.
 A. I have a J.D. Degree from an ABA accredited law school AND at least 1 year of general professional legal experience, plus 3 years of professional legal tax experience. This experience included at least 52 weeks of professional legal tax work experience (comparable to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service) as detailed in the announcement.
 B. I have an LL.M. in the field of the position from an ABA accredited law school AND 3 years of professional legal tax experience. This experience included at least 52 weeks of professional legal tax work experience (comparable to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service) as detailed in the announcement.
 C. My education and experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Are you an active member in good standing of the bar in a state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia, or commonwealth of Puerto Rico?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. List all states and/or territories in which you are an active member in good standing of the bar and the date in which you were admitted? (i.e. Florida - January 1, 2015)
4. What was your most recent performance rating or progress review?
 A. Outstanding
 B. Excellent
 C. Fully Successfully
 D. I am not a current federal employee or I do not have a performance rating or progress review.
5. Check all examples that closely match your oral presentation or communication skills:
 A. I have tried a federal criminal tax or money laundering or financial crimes case.
 B. I have communicated technical tax information to internal audiences.
 C. I have communicated technical tax information to external audiences.
 D. I have persuaded others to accept facts, findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action.
 E. I have facilitated training sessions, meetings and conferences with a varied audience with varied levels of comprehension.
 F. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis to peers.
 G. I have led or conducted legal presentations to internal and external audiences.
 H. I have led or participated in a working group or team to address a legal or administrative issue or process.
 I. I have served as a member of a legal subject matter cadre.
 J. None of the above.
6. Have you served in an advisory capacity to top Executives in the IRS, Treasury Department or Department of Justice?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. How many courses from an ABA accredited law school did you complete at the JD level or above in subject matters related to criminal tax law, cybercrimes law or financial crimes law? Eligible courses include tax, criminal law, criminal procedure, internet law, information privacy law, computer crimes, cybercrimes, white collar/financial crimes and evidence courses.
 A. 1
 B. 2
 C. 3
 D. 4 or more
 E. None of the above
8. In your legal career, have you prepared legal analyses on taxation, financial crimes or criminal tax related topics?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. From the following list, select all of the duties and/or experiences you have performed on a regular and recurring basis to supervise or lead a diverse staff of employees.
 A. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 B. I have prepared formal employee performance evaluations and conducted performance evaluation meetings with subordinates.
 C. I have counseled employees on job performance and conduct issues.
 D. I have interviewed candidates for positions.
 E. I have recommended individuals for appointment, promotion, or reassignment.
 F. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 G. I have resolved office conflicts.
 H. I have held responsibility as a team leader.
 I. I have reviewed the work product of other attorneys and provided constructive feedback.
 J. I have served as a mentor to more junior attorneys.
 K. I have not done any of the activities listed above.
10. What is the extent of your experience as a supervisor or manager of other attorneys?
 A. At least 1 year but less than 2 years
 B. At least 2 years but less than 3 years
 C. At least 3 years but less than 5 years
 D. At least 5 years but less than 7 years
 E. At least 7 years but less than 10 years
 F. 10 years or more
 G. None
11. Check all examples that closely match your written communication skills as a regular or recurring part of your job.
 A. Prepared final comments/recommendations on proposed legislation.
 B. Prepared and reviewed briefs for congressional hearings, Tax Court or other trials.
 C. Drafted research documents, studies and reports.
 D. Drafted articles featured in criminal law or tax-related publications.
 E. Drafted policy statements and procedural guidelines.
 F. Drafted briefing materials for diverse audience.
 G. Drafted reports, memoranda and other correspondence for signature of higher-level officials internal and external to your organization.
 H. None of the above.
12. Select all of the responses that describe your experience in interpreting IRS or financial crimes laws.
 A. I have drafted briefs on more than three cases.
 B. I have been the primary author of content to government agencies on tax or financial crimes matters.
 C. I have tried cases before the Tax Court or U.S. District Court.
 D. I have drafted documents for trials before the Tax Court or U.S. District Court on more than three cases.
 E. I have answered inquiries about tax law or financial crimes matters from members of Congress on more than three occasions.
 F. I have drafted legal opinions or court opinions on the application and interpretation of tax laws or financial crimes on more than three occasions.
 G. I have drafted regulations and other published guidance interpreting or implementing tax laws or financial crimes.
 H. I have regularly identified regulatory and tax administration issues raised by laws.
 I. I have been the primary author of articles featured in tax-related publications.
 J. I have prepared and reviewed briefs for Congressional hearings, Tax Court or other trials and proceedings.
 K. None of the above.
13. Have you initiated or reviewed five or more documents for submission to the U.S. Tax Court or U.S. District Court or Federal or State Court or initiated or reviewed five or more documents analyzing tax law?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Select all the responses that describe your experience with general motion practice and appellate litigation:
 A. I have been the principal author of 3 or more written briefs that were filed with a state or federal trial court.
 B. I have personally handled 3 or more oral arguments in a state or federal trial court.
 C. I have been the principal author of 3 or more appellate briefs filed with a state or federal appellate or supreme court.
 D. I have personally conducted 3 or more oral arguments before a state or federal appellate or supreme court.
 E. None of the above.
15. Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected