Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
NSAPC-25-12779898 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 to Sunday, August 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current NAF employee at Naval Support Activity, Panama City?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a NAF employee currently working at Naval Support Activity, Panama City. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you willing to work irregular hours that will include some weekends and late nights?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you willing and able to perform under considerable physical exertion while instructing or guiding participants in a variety of activities. Sitting, walking, standing long period of time, bending and lifting of moderately heavy items up to 40lbs. Working outside for special events or leading outdoor group outings or trips.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education to qualify for Recreation Specialist - Community Recreation, NF-0188-03. Failure to respond to the questionnaire will result in disqualification.
1. What is your experience level in managing a Recreation Program?
 A. I do not have experience managing a Recreation Program.
 B. I have less than one (1) year of experience managing a Recreation Program.
 C. I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience managing a Recreation Program.
 D. I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience managing a Recreation Program.
 E. I have between one (1) and three (3) years of experience managing a Recreation Program within the DoD/MWR.
 F. I have more than three (3) years of experience managing a Recreation Program within the DoD/MWR.
2. How many years of experience do you have in measuring program performance, customer relations, personnel utilization and cost to determine where adverse trends are developing and take the necessary correction action?
 A. I have less than one (1) year of experience in measuring program performance, customer relations, personnel utilization and cost to determine where adverse trends are developing and take the necessary corrective action.
 B. I have one (1) to two (2) years of experience in measuring program performance, customer relations, personnel utilization and cost to determine where adverse trends are developing and take the necessary corrective action.
 C. I have two (2) to three (3) years of experience in measuring program performance, customer relations, personnel utilization and cost to determine where adverse trends are developing and take the necessary corrective action.
 D. I have more than three (3) years of experience in measuring program performance, customer relations, personnel utilization and cost to determine where adverse trends are developing and take the necessary corrective action.
 E. I do not have any experience.
3. Describe your knowledge and experience in establishing and conducting ongoing preventative maintenance program for the facilities, equipment and vehicles to provide for safe and reliable service.
 A. I have one (1) year of experience/knowledge in establishing and conducting ongoing preventive maintenance program for the facilities, equipment and vehicles to provide for safe and reliable service.
 B. I have two (2) years of experience/knowledge in establishing and conducting ongoing preventive maintenance program for the facilities, equipment and vehicles to provide for safe and reliable service.
 C. I have more than three (3)years of experience/knowledge in establishing and conducting ongoing preventive maintenance program for the facilities, equipment and vehicles to provide for safe and reliable service.
 D. I have no experience as described above.
4. What experience do you have in preparing an annual operating budget and staying within established budget?
 A. I do not have any experience in preparing an annual operating budget.
 B. I have less than two (2) years of experience in preparing the annual operating budget and have maintained the established budget.
 C. I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience in preparing the annual operating budget and have maintained the established budget.
 D. I have at least four (4) years of experience in preparing the annual operating budget and have maintained the established budget.
5. Do you possess a comprehensive knowledge of wide range concepts, principles and practices relating to the authorization and development of Liberty Single Sailor Program, Auto Skills Center, Community Recreation, Outdoor Recreation, Library and Information, Tickets and Travel.
 A. I have less than two (2) years knowledge of authorization and development of the above-mentioned programs.
 B. I have between two (2) and four (4) years knowledge of authorization and development of the above-mentioned programs.
 C. I have more than five (5) years knowledge of authorization and development of the above-mentioned programs.
 D. I have no experience as described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected