Position Title
Lead Medical Instrument Technician - Gastroenterology
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12808829-25-MW Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Monday, October 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Washington DC  VA Medical Center: Select the appropriate answer to the following question based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Basic Requirements: To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English? Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a
 Yes
 No


Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GRADE DETERMINATION

In addition to meeting the basic requirements Lead Medical Technicians - Gastroenterology must have:

Experience. At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled.  (GS-07 Experience: This represents the full performance level. Technicians at this level function with minimal instruction, assisting the staff with complex specialized procedures such as ERCP and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). They are proficient with GI endoscopic equipment and ensure proper performance of endoscopic equipment; select alternate equipment or adjust equipment settings to accommodate patient needs and produce high quality technique. They collect, process, and label all specimens; train other technicians in basic endoscopic procedures; work in and outside the GI unit offering technician support during emergent and on-call endoscopic cases; and assist the nurse in patient care duties such as obtaining vital signs, dressing and documenting all pertinent information in the patient's records. They inventory and maintain par levels of specialty equipment for the endoscopy unit.) 

Certification. No certification is required; however, it is desirable that employees at this level have Society of Gastroenterology Nurses and Associates (SGNA) core level one and two certifications (BLS and ACLS).

Do you meet the Experience requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to meeting the experience requirements for this grade level, the candidate must fully demonstrate the following KSAs:
 
1. Knowledge of complex gastroenterology procedures, such as ERCP with spy glass, ablation procedures, mucosal resection procedures, fine needle aspiration procedures and capsule studies.

2. Ability to provide briefings and orientations to hospital staff including physicians.

3. Knowledge of regulatory and advisory agencies such as Joint Commission, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Society of Gastroenterology Nurses and Associates (SGNA), American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE), and applicable laws such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA).

4. Knowledge of medical terminology related to GI and biliary systems used to identify pathology or for specimen identification and procedure documentation and knowledge of advanced anatomy and physiology to recognize obvious abnormalities during procedures.

5. Ability to provide staff development and training.

Assignments. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), and range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time.
Lead GI Technician. In certain programs, either because of size and scope or because of a lack of specific supervisory positions, lead positions may be appropriate to provide daily guidance to the GI technicians. Lead Technicians will be the "superusers" responsible for answering questions for all staff on the endoscopic equipment. They will have the responsibility for daily workload assessments, assigning work, and assuring proper staffing coverage; provide performance input for evaluation and award purposes; evaluate training records; and determine educational needs of the technician staff. They assist the practitioner with the most complex and non-standard procedures consisting of difficult endoscopic intubation through strictures. They assist special needs patients through the endoscopic procedure, ensuring those with physical or mental limitations are given the necessary physical or non- medicinal interventional support measures. They participate in quality improvement measures, recommending and implementing practice changes when indicated.

Do you meet the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) as described above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙