Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
ITBF-25-AOD-12778453-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 6, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.

1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or eligibility as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
CTAP Eligibility:
1. Are you a current or former VA employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position equivalent to or below the grade of the position being advertised?

Note: To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12level.
2. Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 in Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: Experience managing financial reporting, capital investment planning, multi-year programming, budget formulation, execution management, and accounting activities to secure appropriate funding levels. Provides central oversight and management to report sustainment investments, program long-range budget requirements, formulate budget requests, and execute the current year budget.
 B. I do not meet the above requirements
Assessment 2
This test evaluates situational judgment and job knowledge based on OPM standards. Each question includes potential responses and reflects foundational experience with leadership-level engagement, large organizational support, financial oversight, and potential for advancement. Read each question carefully. Choose the most appropriate response based on the scenario described.
1. You are tasked with preparing the Budget Execution Director for a meeting with senior executives on Travel, Training, Supplies and Awards. You receive last-minute financial data revisions from the ITBEAS team. What is your course of action?
 A. Update the materials immediately and inform the Director of the changes during the meeting.
 B. Cross-check the revisions, update the materials, and notify the Director before the meeting starts.
 C. Wait until after the meeting to share the updated data.
 D. Delegate the update task to another team member without follow-up.
2. During a budget review on Pay Administration Funding a Product Line director presents conflicting financial data. How do you support the Director?
 A. Verify the data source and provide accurate information to the Director discreetly.
 B. Interrupt the meeting to correct the director immediately.
 C. Note the discrepancy and follow up after the meeting.
 D. Leave the issue unaddressed to avoid confrontation.
3. While compiling a financial report, you discover an error that could impact executive decision-making. What is your response?
 A. Correct the error independently and proceed with distribution.
 B. Ignore the error, assuming it is minor.
 C. Notify the Director and recommend corrective actions before the report is distributed.
 D. Postpone the report until you receive further instructions.
4. You receive conflicting directives from the Director and another senior executive. How do you proceed?
 A. Follow the Directors directive and ignore the other executive.
 B. Clarify priorities with both parties to resolve the conflict.
 C. Choose the directive you find easier to accomplish.
 D. Delay action until further clarification is provided.
5. A federal agency must adhere to specific laws when managing funds. Which act requires agencies to avoid spending more than Congress has appropriated?
 A. The Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA)
 B. The Antideficiency Act
 C. The Budget and Accounting Act
 D. The Government Performance and Results Act
6. What VA software tools are proficient for data analysis?
 A. BTT
 B. iFAMS
 C. Bi-Reports
 D. All of the above.
7. The key elements of a Purchase Card holder making a valid government purchase is:
 A. Bonafide government need
 B. Approval of a GS-15 or SES
 C. Funding approval
 D. All of the above
8. As a Budget professional the first rule you learn is the Color of Money. What choice below is not associated with the Color of Money:
 A. Sustainment – Steady State
 B. Pay and Administration
 C. Gold, minerals and Bitcoin
 D. Development
9. During a Continuing Resolution (CR) what is not allowed:
 A. Funding new startup projects.
 B. Funding existing projects with the same funding amounts as the previous year.
 C. Funding on a month-to-month basis.
 D. Not allowing funding after the CR end date with no new funding appropriations signed by the President.
10. What is not a part of the Federal Budget Process:
 A. Execution
 B. Congressional Action
 C. Formulation
 D. Summer Recess
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected