Position Title
Lead Recreation Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12794821-25-VES Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
2. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
3. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).
1. Education: Please select the appropriate response to indicate how you meet the education requirement for the Recreation Therapist occupation.

Transcripts must be submitted (unofficial are sufficient).

Foreign Education: To be creditable, education completed outside the US must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign education credentials. The private organization must deem such education at least equivalent to that gained in conventional US programs.
 A. I have a bachelor?s degree or higher from an accredited college or university, with a major in therapeutic recreation or recreation/leisure, with an option and/or emphasis in therapeutic recreation. This degree is approved by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC).
 B. I have a bachelor?s degree or higher in any field from an accredited college or university AND am a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS). This degree is approved by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC).
 C. I meet the grandfathering provision. I was employed by the VHA as a Recreation Therapist on the effective date of the qualification standard (June 7, 2019) and have remained employed in that position.
 D. I do not meet the education requirement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. English Language Proficiency: Applicants must be proficient in spoken and written English, as required by 38 USC 7403(f).

Do you meet this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Certification: Applicants must be certified in recreation therapy as a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS) by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC).

Certification can not be waived if bachelor's degree is not in therapeutic recreation or recreation/leisure, with an option and/or emphasis in therapeutic recreation.

Please select the appropriate response. Please ensure that you submit a copy of current certification if applicable.
 A. I am certified in recreation therapy as a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS) by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC).
 B. I meet the grandfathering provision. I was employed by the VHA as a Recreation Therapist on the effective date of the qualification standard (June 7, 2019) and have remained employed in that position.
 C. I do not meet the certification requirement.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. GS-12 Grade Level Requirement:

Applicants must have at least one (1) year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level. To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of the knowledge, skills and abilities associated with current recreation therapy practice.

At the GS-11 level, the following knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) are demonstrated:
i. Ability to adapt assessment tools and treatment interventions to address the complexity of the diagnosis or disabilities and demonstrate the clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment of function and utilization of unconventional methods and techniques.
ii. Knowledge to independently interpret provider referrals and consults; and apply all health and safety regulations to minimize and mitigate risks in the provision of patient care and the environment of care.
iii. Skill in effectively communicating and educating, in a clear and concise manner, with patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professionals to facilitate the interdisciplinary treatment process.
iv. Skill in independently utilizing appropriate screening and evaluation techniques required to appropriately provide direct patient care in areas such as, but not limited to recommendations for recreation therapy assistive devices, including fit and function.
v. Skill in independently applying evidence-based and best practice therapeutic techniques and interventions.vi. Knowledge of the principles and techniques in recreation therapy assessment and the treatment of recreation, leisure, and biopsychosocial functional deficits.

At the GS 12 Level: Additionally, applicants must demonstrate the following Knowledge Skills and Abilities:
i. Knowledge of recreation therapy across multiple types of clinical practice.
ii. Ability to provide professional oversight and consultation for staff therapists and guidance to auxiliary staff, volunteers, and trainees.
iii. Ability to monitor and report on the status and progress of work and make adjustments to accomplish the workload, in accordance with established procedures.
iv. Ability to facilitate program development, outcome management, and strategic planning.
v. Ability to act as a liaison between staff, volunteers, or trainees, and serve as an immediate supervisor to resolve informal complaints and concerns.
vi. Knowledge of procedures and policies to provide oversight and training for auxiliary staff, volunteers, and trainees.
vii. Skill in coordinating clinical activities within the workgroup. viii. Skill in leading and directing staff to implement evidence-based recreation and/or creative arts therapy approaches to patients with varied treatment needs and skill level.

Do you meet this experience requirement? Please ensure that your resume fully details this experience. Failure to do so may result in an not qualified rating.

At the GS-11 level, the following knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) are demonstrated:
 A. Yes
 B. No
Transcript Reminder: This position has formal education requirement. You MUST SUBMIT a copy of your transcripts with your application. Unofficial is sufficient.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected