Position Title
Speech Language Pathologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12787926-25-DC Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 21, 2025 to Monday, September 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Please ensure that you read all information and select the response that best meets your status/level of applicability.
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Speech Pathologist GS-0665-11/12. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation.
You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

1. Licensure: In consideration for the GS-12, the applicant/incumbent of for Speech Pathologist is required to hold a full, current and unrestricted license in Speech language pathology.
 A. I possess a full, current and unrestricted license.
 B. I am a VHA employee covered under the Grandfathering Provision (I was employed in VHA in this occupation on the effective date of this qualification standard and am considered to have met all qualification requirements).
 C. I do not possess a full, current and unrestricted license.
2. Education: This position has a positive educational requirement. Please select the response that best describes your educational level. *Note* "Accredited" means a college or university recognized by a regional accreditation organization and a speech-language pathology academic program [recognized] by the Council on Academic Accreditation of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA).
 A. A master’s degree or its equivalent in speech-language pathology, communication disorders, or a directly related field from an accredited college or university.
 B. I am a VHA employee covered under the Grandfathering Provision (I was employed in VHA in this occupation on the effective date of this qualification standard and am considered to have met all qualification requirements).
 C. I do not possess the required accredited education for this position .
Knowledge, Skills & Abilities:  For the GS-11 & GS-12 level: In addition to the positive educational requirements, candidates must possess professional experience comparable to the next lower level. My resume supports my professional knowledge and skill in applying a wide range of theories, principles, and methodology of the practices of speech-language pathology to a wide range of populations. My resume further supports the KSA's required.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. For consideration at the GS-11: Non-licensed applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for SLP licensure may be appointed to a temporary position as a graduate SLP under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405 (c).Or Individuals appointed as graduate SLPs may not be promoted to the GS-12 level without being fully licensed.
In addition the candidate must demonstrate the follow knowledge, skills and abilities:
Knowledge of principles and techniques in assessing and treating disorders of speech, language, cognitive-communication and swallowing.
Knowledge of instrumentation and technologies for assessing and treating communication and swallowing disorders.
Ability to adapt clinical procedures and techniques to accommodate unique patient conditions, needs and goals.
Do you meet all of the above requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4.  For consideration at the GS-12: In addition to the basic requirements at the GS-11 level, completing one year of professional experience comparable to the next lower level and possessing a full, current and unrestricted license to practice speech-language pathology.
In addition to the experience requirements, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills and abilities:
Skill in applying principles and techniques of diagnosis and treatment associated with contemporary speech-language pathology following evidence-based practice for adult patients exhibiting the full range of speech to the full range of patient populations.
Skill in administering and interpreting instrumental swallowing evaluations.
Ability to assess the effectiveness of clinical outcomes and adapt clinical procedures and techniques to accommodate unique patient conditions.
 A. I possess 1 year of professional experience equivalent to the next lower level (GS-11)
 B. I do not possess 1 year of professional experience equivalent to the next lower level. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. As per VA Handbook 5005 chapter 2 section D, paragraph 5a; Medical Records Administrators must be proficient in basic written and spoken English to perform the duties of this position in.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Are you proficient in the English language?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination?
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following is a Certification of Understanding. RESPONSE TO THIS STATEMENT IS MANDATORY. Please note, if you do not answer this question, it will result in not being considered for this position.
7. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify the information provided above.
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: * Job title; * Duties (be as detailed as possible); * Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) * Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) *Salary ALL applicants must submit a 10-2850C (link to form on announcement) through upload or fax by the closing date of the announcement. ALL DOCUMENTS MUST CONTAIN CURRENT IFORMATION AND SIGNED WITHIN THE LAST SIX MONTHS, OTHERWISE APPLICATIONS WILL BE CONSIDERED AS INCOMPLETE.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected