Position Title
Supervisory Auditor (Assistant Field Director)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OT-IMP-12789265-KEG Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Tuesday, September 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Chicago, IL
 B. Fort Mitchell, KY
 C. Detroit, MI
 D. Buffalo, NY
 E. Philadelphia, PA
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
8. The following question(s) will be used to determine whether or not you meet the Mandatory Basic Requirement for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following statements best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirement for the auditor position? I understand that I am required to submit proof of any educational claim.
 A. I have successfully completed a bachelor's (4-year) or higher degree in accounting or auditing (Conferred Transcript Required).
 B. I have a bachelor's (4-year) or higher degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law (Conferred Transcript Required).
 C. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting OR equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training AND I have 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing, which can include up to 6 hours of business law (Transcript(s) Required).
 D. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting/auditing OR equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training; AND I have a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or Certified Internal Auditor obtained through written examination (Certification Required).
 E. I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting/auditing OR equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training; AND completion of the requirements for a 4-year bachelor’s degree (4-year) that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) applicant successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants/auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements (Transcript(s) Required).
 F. I do not meet any of the above requirements.
9. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes; Providing guidance and leadership to ensure the audit team develops an objective, scope and methodology, and identifying the appropriate criteria to address the identified risk. Developing and executing audit methodologies that address civil and criminal negligence and fraud using data analytics and sampling techniques including statistical sampling. Managing and overseeing the development of complex sample plans, designed to address identified risk to satisfy the objective of the audit. Interpreting agency laws, regulations, rulings, and case law and properly applying it audits, investigative technical assists and special projects.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
10. If selected for this position, you must successfully complete a multi-week training at a designated training facility as outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Failure to successfully complete the required training course(s) in accordance with the standards and policies of Customs and Border Protection will be grounds for removal from the position. Such failure will result in either reassignment to a former or different position, demotion, or separation by appropriate procedures.

If you have previously attended this training, the requirement may be waived. If you answer "no" to the training agreement acknowledgment question below, you will be removed from further consideration for this position.

Do you acknowledge the training requirement and agree to the terms outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above?
 A. Yes, I confirm that I understand and agree to the term as outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above.
 B. No, I do not agree to the training requirement terms and understand that I will be removed from further consideration for this position.
11.

All newly appointed, first-time CBP supervisors are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors to attend within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, first time permanent supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with current agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former first time supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Select the option that best describes your experience developing strategic plans related to auditing.

 A. I have had no experience performing this task.
 B. I have developed strategic plans related to auditing as part of a team by drafting one or more portions of the plan.
 C. I have independently developed strategic plans in an audit environment to include annual audit plans, short term budgets, and long term budgets.
 D. I have independently developed strategic plans in complex audit environments to include creating annual audit plans, short term budgets, and long term budgets for multiple components of a large national organization.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience reviewing audit reports and documentation.

 A. I have had no experience performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed audit reports to identify inconsistencies, incompleteness, inaccuracies, or inappropriateness of content.
 C. I have reviewed and edited audit reports to resolve errors, reconcile discrepancies, and ensure compliance with organizational and national standards.
 D. I have guided others in the review and editing of audit reports to resolve errors, reconcile discrepancies, and ensure compliance with organizational and national standards.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience preparing audit reports.

 A. I have had no experience performing this task.
 B. I have written portions of audit reports that present findings, cite applicable regulations, and identify problematic situations
 C. I have independently prepared audit reports that present findings, cite applicable regulations, identify problematic situations, and recommend corrective action.
 D. I have guided others in the preparation of audit reports that present findings, cite applicable regulations, identify problematic situations, and recommend corrective action.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience briefing to management.

 A. I have had no experience performing this task.
 B. I have drafted informal briefing materials for use by my immediate supervisor.
 C. I have drafted formal briefing materials and presentations incorporating technical findings for use by my immediate supervisor.
 D. I have drafted formal briefings incorporating technical findings and delivered these briefings to senior management.
 E. I have coordinated and guided the efforts of subordinates to draft formal briefings incorporating technical findings and I have delivered these briefings to senior management.
5. Select the option that best describes your experience providing briefings and presentations in the field of accounting and auditing.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have given oral briefings to individuals within my team regarding the status of a project or findings in the field of accounting and auditing.
 C. I have communicated complex concepts verbally through briefings and presentations to peers, my supervisor, and other professionals in the field of accounting and auditing.
 D. I have had extensive experience communicating complex concepts verbally by representing my organization at conferences, workshops, and managerial briefings in the field of accounting and auditing.
6. Select the option that best describes your experience developing technical audit guidance and instructions to be used by field audit staff.

 A. I have had no experience performing this task.
 B. I have researched best practices to develop technical audit guidance as part of a team.
 C. I have independently developed and implemented technical audit guidance based on research of best practices.
 D. I have independently developed and implemented technical audit guidance based on research of best practices. I have explained technical auditing concepts and trained others to apply this audit guidance.
7. Select the option that best describes your knowledge of accounting and auditing principles and practices including internal control and automated systems.

 A. I have no knowledge of accounting and auditing principles and practices.
 B. I have some knowledge of accounting and auditing principles and practices that I have gained during the course of my normal duties.
 C. I have broad knowledge of accounting and auditing principles and practices and have experience participating in discussions with accounting managers and decision-makers who sought my technical opinion.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of accounting and auditing principles and practices. I have served as a key advisor to senior leadership and have provided formal briefings on accounting and auditing to internal and/or external stakeholders.
8. Select the option that best describes your experience in the development and delivery of training in support of the organizational audit mission.

 A. I have had no experience performing this task.
 B. I have assisted and supported others in the development of training materials or delivery of training to support the audit mission.
 C. I have independently developed training materials and delivered training to support the audit mission.
 D. I have supervised and guided the development of training materials and delivery of training to support the audit mission.
9. Select the option that best describes your knowledge of audit techniques, laws, and regulations.

 A. I have no knowledge of audit techniques, laws, and regulations.
 B. I have received basic training in audit techniques, laws, and regulations but I have not yet applied this knowledge in a work setting.
 C. I have working knowledge of audit techniques, laws, and regulations, and have assisted in the analysis of current audit techniques utilized in my organization.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of audit techniques, laws, and regulations. I have overseen analyses of audit techniques utilized in my organization, and have been responsible for ensuring compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
10. Select the option that best describes your experience auditing the efficiency and effectiveness of work processes.

 A. I have had no experience performing this task.
 B. I have contributed as a team member to audit work process effectiveness and efficiency.
 C. I have worked independently to complete audits of work process effectiveness and efficiency, including the development of solutions and recommendations.
 D. I have led and guided a team to complete audits of work process effectiveness and efficiency, including the development of solutions and recommendations.
11. Select the option that best describes your experience working with field audit staff to identify audit problem areas.

 A. I have had no experience performing this task.
 B. I have worked with field audit staff to identify audit problem areas as part of a team.
 C. I have independently worked with field audit staff to identify audit problem areas and to develop solutions.
 D. I have had extensive experience working with field audit staff to identify audit problem areas, develop solutions, and monitor the status of corrective actions.
12. Select the option that best describes your experience monitoring an audit approach to ensure milestones were met, and proper levels and types of resources were used to complete the assignment.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been an assistant to others who were responsible for monitoring the audit approach.
 C. I have been a member of a team responsible for monitoring the audit approach to ensure that milestones were met and the audits were successfully completed.
 D. As a team leader, acting supervisor, or in another capacity, I have had extensive experience monitoring the audit approach to ensure that milestones were met, the proper levels and types of resources were used, and the audits were successfully completed.
13. Select the option that best describes your experience coordinating with various levels of management across an organization.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have coordinated with peers within my immediate work unit to support actions needed to execute a program.
 C. I have coordinated with management within my organizational department to support actions needed to execute a program.
 D. I have coordinated across management levels and across my organization to support actions needed to execute a program.
14. Select the option that best describes your experience in the recruitment, interviewing, and selection of personnel.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in the recruitment, and interviewing, and development of selection recommendations.
 C. I have had responsibility for recruiting and interviewing applicants. I have recommended selection of personnel to a hiring official.
 D. I have overseen the recruitment and interviewing of applicants. I have had responsibility for selecting staff members based on my review and the recommendations of lower level staff members.
15. Select the option that best describes the extent of your experience in assigning work to subordinates based on priorities and capabilities of employees.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had some experience in assigning work as a team leader or acting supervisor.
 C. I have experience as a supervisor in assigning work to subordinates and adjusting those assignments based on changing priorities and demonstrated skills of employees.
 D. I have had experience as a second- or third-level supervisor in assigning program and project responsibilities to subordinate units.
16. Select the option that best describes the extent of your experience and responsibility for employee training.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided routine and informal on-the-job training to peers or subordinates.
 C. I have developed and provided custom training to meet the individual needs of peers or subordinates.
17. Select the option that best describes your experience in improving the efficiency and quality of work performed in a work process having broad organizational impact.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted in the collection of data to define the current state of a work process.
 C. I have collected data to define the current state of a work process, and have analyzed this data to identify sources of efficiency or quality improvements.
 D. I have collected data to define the current state of a work process, have analyzed this data to identify sources of efficiency or quality improvements, and have developed formal written recommendations for my management.
18. Select the option that best describes your application of US Customs and Border Protection laws and regulations to audit activities.

 A. I have had no knowledge or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a general understanding of US Customs and Border Protection laws and regulations, but have not applied this knowledge to auditing.
 C. I have a strong understanding and have applied US Customs and Border Protection laws and regulations to specific auditing tasks.
 D. I have performed many different types of audits and have interpreted and applied US Customs and Border Protection laws and regulations as criteria in order to determine if an entity is in compliance.
19. Select the option that best describes your application of US Customs and Border Protection laws and regulations to deliver auditing training.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have applied a general knowledge of US customs laws and regulations to, under the guidance of others, deliver auditing training.
 C. I have applied a comprehensive knowledge of US customs laws and regulations to independently deliver auditing training as part of a training program.
 D. I have applied an expert knowledge of US customs laws and regulations to design and deliver an auditing training program.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected