Position Title
Recreation Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12819850 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Friday, October 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Recreation Assistant position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the response applicable to you.

 I have 1 year of specialized experience e.g. assist in the organization and administration of recreation activities such as preparing activities calendars, maintaining attendance records, and providing information concerning schedules and activities.
 I have an Associate's degree or higher that includes at least 12 semester hours in courses related to recreation.
 I have none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have with conducting inventory, maintaining inventory controls and maintaining equipment for proper accountability of program equipment and resources?
 I have more than 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have 2-3 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have with providing customer service e.g. providing timely and attentive service to internal and external customers, clear communication skills, product knowledge, and positive attitude)?
 I have more than 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have 2-3 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙