Position Title
Mission Support Specialist (Generalist)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OTD-DE-12802780-SR Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 18, 2025 to Wednesday, September 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
4. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-11 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of experience as a Management Program Specialist or Mission Support Specialist, GS-0301-09 (or higher grade level) with the federal government.
 B. I have successfully completed three or more years of full-time graduate education or a doctoral (or higher) degree or an LL.M. in an appropriate discipline from an accredited college or university. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 C. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes monitoring and advising on a variety of administrative problems or situations (i.e. budget, personnel, travel, space, logistics); organizing incoming and outgoing correspondence and ensuring proper handling of administrative material; assisting with the management of property and vehicle inventory to include ordering, receiving, inventorying, transferring, and excessing property; gathering information and data from automated systems to prepare briefing materials for management and senior leadership.
 D. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate education in an appropriate discipline and experience as described in C, the total of which equals 100%. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim.
 E. I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.
2. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes managing property and vehicle inventory, to include handling lost, stolen, destroyed, or missing property; assisting in performing budget obligations and ensuring allocations, commitments, and expenditures are properly projected; utilizing automated systems to track, monitor and gather information to support human capital and timekeeping activities; developing and preparing reports and/or briefings to senior leadership and management officials.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience taking inventory of local property.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task.
 B. I have completed training related to physical inventory and reporting but have not applied this in my work.
 C. I have assisted in performing physical inventory and reporting inventory status.
 D. I have independently performed physical inventory and reported the inventory status to include missing items, and items not listed on the inventory.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience calculating financial projections.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted in calculating financial projections for a project/program.
 C. I have reviewed financials for a project/program to determine if additional funding is needed.
 D. I have been responsible for calculating projections for a project/program to ensure adequate funding has been allocated to cover all expenses, and to complete annual budget submission.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience administering premium pay, overtime, and leave entitlements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic understanding of the administration of pay, overtime, and leave, but I have not been responsible for administering this for an office.
 C. I have assisted in the administration of premium pay, overtime, and leave.
 D. I have been responsible for the administration of premium pay, overtime, and leave entitlements for my office.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience briefing individuals on various budget issues (e.g., purchase requirements and restrictions, budget deficit/surplus).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have answered questions from other employees on various budget issues.
 C. I have prepared portions of briefing materials on various budget issues to be submitted to management.
 D. I have prepared and delivered briefings on various budget issues to senior level management.
7. Have you served as a Local Property Officer (LPO)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Indicate the extent of your experience evaluating programs and work processes.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have evaluated programs and work processes and have made recommendations to improve their effectiveness.
 C. I have developed metrics used to evaluate the effectiveness of work processes or programs, and have monitored the use of these metrics.
9. Indicate the extent to which you have verified the accuracy of data.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed small data sets to identify errors and inconsistencies.
 C. I have reviewed large and complex data sets and have resolved errors, reconciled inconsistencies, and ensured conformity with organizational standards.
10. Indicate the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, defined problems, and identified solutions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 C. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 D. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 E. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in using Microsoft Office software.

 A. I have had no training in or experience with Microsoft Office software.
 B. I am familiar with the basic capabilities of Microsoft Office software, to include Word, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint. I have used at least one of these software products in the course of my daily job.
 C. I have experience using multiple software products from Microsoft Office (e.g., Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint). I have used at least two or more of these software products during the course of my daily job.
 D. I have extensive experience using multiple software products from Microsoft Office (e.g., Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint). Because of my expert knowledge, I frequently provide formal or informal training to my coworkers on the software product(s).
12. Indicate the extent of your ability to communicate with all levels of managers, staff members, and outside groups.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of my duties.
 C. I have conducted meetings with and provided training for staff members or outside groups.
 D. I have provided briefings within my own organization or to external groups or organizations.
 E. I have represented a program or organization in high-level conferences or meetings, or I have acted as a liaison to external groups or organizations.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience communicating in writing.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents dealing with general or technical subject matter.
 C. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, memoranda, policies/procedures, and other complete documents dealing with technical and specialized subject matter.
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, formal briefings, and other complete documents dealing with complex, technical, and specialized subject matter.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience in planning and organizing work.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience in planning and organizing work for a small team.
 C. I have planned and organized the day-to-day work of my immediate work unit on a continuous basis.
 D. I have overseen the planning and organization of work for my organization and developed standards for continuous improvement.
 E. I have overseen the mid- to long-range (i.e., quarterly or annual) planning and organization of work for my immediate work unit and in coordination with other organizational units when there were complicating factors (e.g., conflicting priorities, work involving multiple disciplines).
15. Indicate the extent to which you have developed and maintained effective relationships with individuals internal and external to your work group, office, and organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, plan team projects, and establish long-term working relationships.
16. Indicate the extent of your experience in establishing and adjusting priorities for team and group projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have established priorities for a team or group project and I have made adjustments to accommodate unexpected changes in project resources, project goals, or changes in the work place.
 C. I have established priorities for projects involving multiple teams or organizations and I have made adjustments to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected