Position Title
SUPERVISORY FINANCIAL ECONOMIST
Agency
Securities and Exchange Commission
Announcement Number
25-IN-12808607-MJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current SEC employee serving on a permanent or conditional appointment? 

To determine your eligibility, please refer to your last SF-50.  To be eligible, your tenure code must be 1 or 2 AND your status must reflect competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. San Francisco, CA
 C. Denver, CO
 D. Washington, DC
 E. Miami, FL
 F. Atlanta, GA
 G. Chicago, IL
 H. Boston, MA
 I. New York, NY
 J. Philadelphia, PA
 K. Fort Worth, TX


2.
From the options below, please indicate the choice that BEST describes your situation:
 I am an external candidate, and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for the position, I will be permitted to provide an updated comprehensive resume to determine salary. If an updated resume is not provided within 3 days of being notified of your selection, pay will be established based on the resume submitted at the time of application.
 I am a current SEC employee and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in a promotion, the standard percentage increase will be applied (i.e., 6% for non-supervisory and 10% for supervisory positions) to determine my salary. I understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in lateral movement (i.e. no change in grade) I will maintain my current salary. I also understand that if I should be selected for this position and it results in a change in grade from an SK-15 to an SK-16, I will maintain my current salary.


3.
How did you hear about this position?
American Economic Association (AEA-JOE Network)
Career Fair (Please specify below)
College/University Job Board (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity)
Email from SEC Recruitment Team
Facebook
Friend (non-SEC Employee)
Friend (SEC Employee) (Please specify below)
I am a current SEC Employee or Contractor
Indeed
Job Board (Please specify below)
LinkedIn – Job Post
LinkedIn – Message from SEC Recruiter
SEC Careers Website (www.sec.gov/careers)
SEC Information Session
Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
USAJOBS – Job Search
USAJOBS – Message from SEC Recruiter
USAJOBS – Saved Search Email
X (formerly known as "Twitter")
Other source (e.g., job board, print ad, professional organization, website) (Please specify below)


4.
Please specify based on your selection above as applicable:


Assessment 1
1.
Are you a current permanent or conditional, competitive service employee assigned to the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis (DERA) within the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission? Please refer to block 24 for Tenure and block 34 for "Position Occupied" of your latest Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
The following are basic qualification requirements for this position. Please select the letter that corresponds to the statement that most accurately describes your level of education/experience.
 I have a bachelor's degree or higher in economics that includes at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting or calculus.
 I have a combination of education and experience--courses evaluated I have a combination of education and experience--courses equivalent to a major in economics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. Examples of qualifying experience include economic research assignments requiring planning, information assembly, analysis and evaluation, conclusions and report preparation; supervisory or project coordination assignments involving a staff of professional economists, and requiring the evaluation and interpretation of economic information; or teaching assignment in a college or university in economic subjects in combination with one of the following: personal research that produced evidence of results, direction of graduate theses in economics, or service as a consultant or advisor on technical economics problems.
 My level of education and/or experience is less than described above.


3.
From the responses below, select the statement that best describes your ability to perform as a Supervisory Financial Economist, SK-110-17.
 I have one year of experience equivalent to the SK-14 grade level providing economic analysis relating to enforcement investigations into violations of the federal securities laws
 My level of experience is less than described above


4.
From the list below, select the elements of supervision that you have experience performing as a regular part of your current or previous positions (select all that apply).
 A. Providing leadership and direction on projects
 B. Recommending/approving awards
 C. Recruiting and interviewing job candidates
 D. Employee development and training
 E. Employee relations
 F. Revising position descriptions or developing new position descriptions
 G. None of the above


5.
Select the statement that best describes your experience developing, leading, directing and motivating a diverse group of people taking into account individual goals and skills.
 I have provided broad guidance to people to prioritize work and accomplish it in a timely manner, but have not served as a team leader or an acting supervisor.
 I have some experience leading, directing and motivating team members to accomplish specific projects.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


6.
Select the statement that best describes your experience analyzing financial and economic issues and developing solutions.
 I have analyzed economic issues, consulted with appropriate resources or experts to address any questions, and made recommendations to managers based on my assessment.
 I have analyzed economic issues while employed by a regulatory agency, supervisory organization, or financial institution such as a broker-dealer, primary dealer, clearing agency, commercial bank, or hedge fund.
 None of the above.


7.
From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe your experience as a financial economist.(Select all that apply)
 A. Evaluating new developments in economic research and methodologies.
 B. Applying economic tools to include statistical methods, modeling, statistical software, and scenario analysis.
 C. Conducting economic research on topics of relevance to US regulations and enforcement of US regulations.
 D. My experience is not described above.


8.
Select the statement that best describes your experience conveying information in written form.
 I have experience identifying key items within large amounts of economic technical information and have authored reports and/or memos that succinctly explain the meaning and importance of such items to both economists and non- economists.
 I have experience identifying key items within large amounts of technical information and have supplied such information to others to support the authoring of reports and/or memos that succinctly explain the meaning and importance of such items to both economists and non-economists, but have not served as an author myself.
 I have prepared written materials for internal use by senior management in memorandum format but have not identified key information and I have not served as an author of a memorandum.
 My experience is not described above.


9.
Select the statement that best describes your experience communicating in writing to a wide variety of audiences, on technical topics for which recipients may have conflicting objectives or limited knowledge.
 I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


10.
Select the statement that best describes your experience delivering presentations to varied audiences on economic analyses in the context of potential SEC actions, official reports and litigation.
 I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


11.
Select the statement that best describes your experience communicating with diverse audiences, with varying levels of understanding, to resolve difficult or controversial issues.
 I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙