Position Title
Nursing Assistant Escort Service
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12773815-25-RJE Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 to Monday, August 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
2. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: Select the appropriate response to the following questions based on your level of education and/or experience that demonstrates you meet the basic requirements for this position. NOTE (GRANDFATHERING PROVISION): All Nursing Assistants (NAs) employed in VHA on the effective date (May 22, 2024) of the qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the series and grade held that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply: (1) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard. (2) If an employee who was retained (grandfathered) under this provision leaves the occupation, the employee loses protected status of the grandfathering provision and must meet the full VA qualification standard basic requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d) "No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to meet the requirement of this position."
1. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 A. Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 B. No, I am NOT proficient in spoken and written English.
(EXPERIENCE) EDUCATION OR TRAINING: Six months of general experience. Experience must demonstrate the ability to acquire the knowledge and skills to perform the work of a NA. One year above high school with courses related to the NA occupation. Completion of an intensive, specialized, occupation-related course of study of less than one year as a nursing assistant may also meet in full the experience requirements for GS-3.
2. Have you acquired at least the one year above high school with courses related to the NA occupation, or completed an intensive, specialized, and occupation-related course of study of less than one year as a nursing assistant that may also meet in full the experience requirements for GS-3 grade level? (TRANSCRIPTS OR PROOF OF TRAINING RELATED TO THE COURSE OF STUDY FOR NURSING ASSISTANTS MUST BE SUBMITTED AT TIME OF APPLICATION).

 A. Yes, I have at least the required training and or education as listed above.
 B. No, I do NOT have the required training or education as listed above.
GRADE REQUIREMENTS: In addition to the Basic Requirements, applicants must also meet ALL of the grade requirements: (1) Knowledge of Current Professional. To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with the current practice. (2) Quality of Experience. To be creditable, NA experience must be documented on the application or resume and verified in an employment reference, or through other independent means. (3) Part-time Experience. Part-time experience as a NA is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time workweek. For example, a NA employed 20 hours a week, or on a 1/2-time basis, would receive 1 full-time workweek of credit for each 2 weeks of service. The following questions reference grade determination at GS-0621, Nursing Assistant (Entry Level). In addition to the base requirements listed above, the below qualification requirements must be met for the GS-03 grade level: (A) Experience. None beyond the basic requirements, as listed in question 5. (B) Assignments. Individuals assigned as GS-3 NAs are considered to be at the entry level and are closely supervised.
3. GS-3 Grade Determination: None beyond the basic requirements. Do you have at least the minimum basic training required for the GS-03 grade level as listed above?

 A. Yes, I possess the basic required training for the GS-03 grade level as a Nursing Assistant.
 B. No, I do NOT possess the basic required training for the GS-03 grade level.
GS-4 Grade Determination: The following is GS-04 grade determination. Assignment (1) Individuals assigned as GS-4 NA] are considered to be at the intermediate or developmental level and are closely supervised. NAs at this grade level function as a member of the nursing care team and assist higher graded NAs, licensed nursing staff, and other members of the care team in the care of patients/residents receiving outpatient care, home or community living care or other patients/residents who are in acute, sub-acute, or chronic states of illness. The significant factor is that they provide care under close supervision and refer issues/questions to supervisors, higher graded NAs or other healthcare professionals. (2) In this role, the Nursing Assistant functions as a member of the nursing care team and assists higher graded NAs, licensed nursing staff, and other members of the care team in the care of patients/residents receiving outpatient care, home or community living care, or other patients who are in acute, sub-acute, or chronic states of illness. The Nursing Assistant in this role provides care under close supervision and refers issues/questions to supervisors, higher graded NAs, or other healthcare professionals. (a) Experience. One year of specialized experience as a [NA] or experience in another medical field (licensed practical nurse, health technician, hospital corpsman, etc.), performing technical and nursing skills requiring knowledge of the human physical and emotional states, therapeutic communication, and technical skills required for basic and intermediate treatments; OR, (b) Education. Successful completion of 2 years above high school in an accredited institution with courses related to nursing care, health care or in a field of study appropriate to the specialization of the position, such as education in a program for psychology, psychiatric, or operating room technicians; AND (c) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate MUST demonstrate the following KSAs: (1.) Ability to provide a range of patient/resident care and contribute to the completion of the nurse care plan and recovery of patients/residents. (2.) Ability to observe patients/residents' or resident's physical or emotional status and refer deviations and/or problems to supervisor in a timely manner. (3.) Ability to properly use equipment, materials and supplies in simple diagnostic and treatment procedures such as bladder scan, continuous passive motion device, blood glucose monitoring machine, specimen collection, etc. (4.) Ability to communicate effectively with patients/residents, their families and other health professionals.
4. GS-4: Do you have the experience OR education listed above, and can you demonstrate the KSAs listed above for GS-04 grade level? Note: The KSAs MUST be clearly identified in your resume, or an attached KSA document.

 A. Yes, I have the experience or education, and I can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-4 grade level.
 B. No, I do NOT have the experience or education required, or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-4 grade level.
GS-5 Grade Determination: In addition to the basic requirements for this Nursing Assistant position, applicants must also meet the Grade Determination: Assignment. This is the full performance level for NAs. NAs at this grade level function as a member of the nursing care team and assist licensed nursing staff in the care of patients/residents receiving outpatient care, home or community living care or other patients/residents who are in acute, sub acute or chronic states of illness. The distinguishing factor is that patient/resident assignments typically involve more complex nursing needs which can vary within a range of predictable to unpredictable requirements. [NAs] at this level also assume more of a peer education/mentorship role. (a) Experience. One year of progressively responsible assignments and experience equivalent to the GS-4 level which demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities that are directly related to the specific assignment. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the professional KSAs in subparagraph (c) below; OR, (b) Education. Successful completion of a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree that included 24 semester hours of courses related to health care or possession of a bachelor's degree; AND (c) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate MUST demonstrate the following KSAs: (1.) Ability to assist in the full range of nursing care to patients/residents with physical and/or behavioral problems in a hospital, long term care or outpatient setting under the direction of a Registered Nurse and/or Licensed Vocational Nurse/Licensed Practical Nurse. (2.) Ability to communicate orally with patients/residents, families, interdisciplinary team and other personnel. This includes serving as a preceptor to new NAs by assisting with the coordination of their orientation and overseeing/assessing their practical experience while in a clinical setting. (3.) Ability to recognize and react to emergent patient/resident care situations and intervene while waiting for assistance. For example, recognizing need for basic life support, controlling bleeding and assisting with behavior crisis, etc.
5. GS-5 Determination: Do you have the experience OR education listed above, and can you demonstrate the KSAs listed above for GS-05 grade level? Note: The KSAs MUST be clearly identified in your resume, or an attached KSA document.

 A. Yes, I have the experience or education, and I can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-5 grade level
 B. No, I do NOT have the experience or education required, or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-5 grade level.
ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. All documents requiring signature must be signed and dated prior to submission in order to be considered complete. Resume' or CV must include the vacancy announcement number, position title, grade, how to contact you, descriptions of jobs held including the name and address of employer, job title, description of duties, beginning and ending date, (month and year) of employment, and average hours worked per week, i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. In describing your experience, please be clear and specific. We may not make any assumptions regarding your experience. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED) Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week...i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying to.
Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. It is the responsibility of the applicant to identity the required courses for the position that are listed in the education section. By providing a course description from the college or university if not clearly identifiable on the school's transcripts. We do NOT make assumptions form the course number that the listed courses meet the requirement. (REQUIRED)
VA form 10-2850C - The Application for Associated Health Professions will be Required Upon Selection. This document must be completed and signed and dated where indicated. Failure to submit this completed document will render the applicant ineligible for consideration. You may print the form, complete, sign and date it then either scan it to USAJOBS document and follow the instructions to attach it to your application or submit if selected.
6. Verification Statement: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 A. Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 B. No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected