Position Title
CIVIL ENGINEER
Agency
Air Education and Training Command
Announcement Number
8V-AFPC-12808578-966108-EGR Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Monday, October 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
AF DCIPS Interchange - Are you a current permanent Air Force or Space Force DCIPS employee eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement (i.e. employee who served continuously for at least one year in a DCIPS position or involuntarily separated from such appointments without personal cause within the preceding year)?  If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you must submit your most recent SF50 and copies of SF50s showing at least one year in a DCIPS position AND a copy of an SF50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 Yes
 No


2.
AF Internal Candidate - Are you a current AF or Space Force career or career-conditional permanent, competitive status Federal Civil Service employee, including those on LWOP?   If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you must submit a copy of your most recent career/career conditional SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) AND a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0808 - Architecture
 B. 0810 - Civil Engineering
 C. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 D. 0850 - Electrical Engineering


2.
I am a current permanent or former federal employee with less than 52 weeks break in the competitive service and I am applying for this position to be considered as a:
 Promotion Candidate - I am eligible for promotion consideration since I have held the next lower grade for at least 52 weeks on a permanent basis in the competitive service or I am a current FWS employee. NOTE: You must submit a copy of SF-50(s) that demonstrate you meet the one year time-in-grade requirement if applicable (i.e., Promotion, Within Grade/Rate Increase).
 Repromotion Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive repromotion consideration since I have held a higher grade on a permanent basis in the competitive federal service or a permanent position with the same or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 Non-competitive Reassignment Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive reassignment consideration since I currently hold a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis held on a permanent basis.
 Non-competitive Voluntary Change to Lower Grade (CLG) Candidate - I am eligible and requesting consideration for a Voluntary CLG since I have held, or currently hold a permanent competitive service position at a higher grade in the federal service. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your current permanent position.
 I am not eligible for any of the above considerations.


3.
If you are currently employed in a permanent General Schedule (GS) position in the competitive service or held a GS position within the previous 52 weeks, please identify your current grade held in a permanent position with inclusive dates, (e.g. 03 Jan 2015 to present). If your current grade is not your highest grade held, please provide both your current grade (with inclusive dates) and your highest grade held grade with inclusive dates, (e.g. 01 Jan 2014 to 02 Jan 2015). If you have not held a GS position in the last 52 weeks, you may skip this question. (Note: Your SF-50's should support the highest grade held).


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
All current federal employees must have a minimum performance rating of acceptable or higher to be considered for placement. Current federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration. Note: Failure to select one of the below responses will render you ineligible for further consideration.
 I am a current federal employee and have a current acceptable performance rating or higher.
 I am a current federal employee and have a current unacceptable performance rating.
 I am a new current federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of this date.
 Not applicable, I am not a current federal employee.


2.
I am a current federal employee within the Air Education and Training Command (AETC).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙