Position Title
DEPUTY BASE OPERATIONS MANAGER (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12815551-AR-25-238 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 30, 2025 to Thursday, November 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (139 RTI - Kure Beach Training Center) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (139 RTI - Kure Beach Training Center) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Officer (2LT - CPT)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0301-12 Program Manager (Base Operations).
 I HAVE experience, education or training 1) in managing or directing, one or more programs, including appropriate supporting service organizations, 2)in supervisory, managerial, professional or technical work experience and/or training which has provided me with the knowledge of management principles, practices, methods and techniques, and 3) in using computer and automation systems.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience, education, or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0301-12 Program Manager (Base Operations).
 I HAVE at least 36 months experience in program or managerial experience in a type of work or a combination of functions directly related to the position to be filled or in comparable work or functions, 2) in developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operations, 3) in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedures, 4) in preparing written communications and oral presentations, 5) in managing the function of the work to be performed, 6) in which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 I DO NOT have at least 36 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙