Position Title
Human Resources Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
JAX-25-12808710 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 9, 2025 to Thursday, October 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions Of Employment
1.
Are you a current CNIC NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Human Resources Specialist position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Do you have at least four (4) years of specialized human resources (HR) experience (e.g. skill in applying HR principles, concepts, and practices, process personnel actions, prepare job descriptions and review qualification requirements) working in a Human Resources Office (HRO)?
 Yes, I possess at least four years of experience as stated above.
 No, I do not possess four years of experience as stated above, but I do possess a Ph. D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-graduate education leading to such degree in any field and my transcripts are attached.
 I possess a combination of education and experience as stated above, and I have included my transcripts.
 No, I do not possess the experience nor education as it relates to this position.


2.
My resume reflects experience in the following HR disciplines:
 A. Background and employment suitability checks
 B. Compensation and Benefits
 C. Employee Relations
 D. Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)
 E. Labor Relations
 F. Position Classification
 G. Recruitment and Staffing
 H. Staff Training and Development
 I. Succession planning
 J. Workforce planning and employment
 K. Workers Compensation
 L. Personnel File Management
 M. Employment Law/Legal Compliance
 N. Relocation/Permanent Change of Station (PCS)
 O. Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel
 P. None of the above


3.
Select ALL the Human Resources Information System(s) that you have utilized to include recruitment tools, payroll systems and background check programs, etc. Programs must be clearly listed in resume in order to receive credit for experience.
 A. SAP HR
 B. KRONOS
 C. ADP
 D. E-QIP
 E. FED HR
 F. USA Staffing
 G. Other System not listed
 H. N/A


4.
Please specify how many years of experience you have performing the following duties: preparing vacancy announcements, coordinating with recruitment sources to post announcements, evaluating candidate qualifications for vacancies, preparing certificates of eligible candidates for selecting officials, making job offers, and/or establishing reporting dates.
 I possess no experience with the above mentioned.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience with the above mentioned.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with the above mentioned.
 I possess between three (3) and four (4) years of experience with the above mentioned.
 I possess more than four (4) years of experience with the above mentioned.


5.
Please indicate your years of experience and proficiency in negotiation procedures and conflict resolution techniques, particularly as they relate to problem solving, advising management, and handling sensitive or highly contested case matters.
 I possess no experience as described above.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I possess between three (3) and four (4) years of experience as described above.
 I possess more than four (4) years of experience as described above.


6.
How many years' work experience do you have in composing correspondence and analyzing HR data for individuals, management officials, employees, other agencies, and/or insurance company staff members to ensure prompt processing of actions and dissemination of information?
 I possess no experience as described above.
 I possess less than one (1) year experience with analyzing HR data and composing HR correspondence.
 I possess one (1) to three (3) years experience with analyzing HR data and composing HR correspondence.
 I possess more than three (3) years experience with analyzing HR data and composing HR correspondence.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙