Position Title
Park Ranger (Protection)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
WO-1614-FLT-25-12767439-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 24, 2025 to Thursday, August 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.
 
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:

Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career- conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced. 

To verify your eligibility as a current National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced.
 
To verify your eligibility as a National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a formal Performance Improvement Plan (PIP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
7. Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week or full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 A. Yes, I certify I have read and understood this requirement. I understand I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 B. No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
MANDATORY ENTRY AGE (MEA)
Applicants for this position must be at least 21 years of age, AND have not reached their 37th birthday prior to the closing date of this job opportunity announcement and upon appointment to this position. The maximum entry age of 37 applies to this position. This is a primary position covered by enhanced retirement provisions which stipulate mandatory retirement at age 57 after 20 years of service (5 U.S.C. 3307 for Federal Law Enforcement positions).

Two exceptions are allowed:
1.) An applicant has prior Federal service in a primary covered position sufficient to complete 20 years of service on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57; OR
2.) An applicant is a qualified veterans' preference eligible, in which case the MEA is waived and their corresponding retirement age may be higher than 57 after completing 20 years of service; OR
3.) An applicant is in receipt of an official Maximum Entry Age Waiver Memorandum approved by the National Park Service, Director of Law Enforcement (the applicant must upload this document with their application) AND is under the age of 40 years.
8.
MANDATORY MINIMUM ENTRY AGE

Applicants for this position must be at least 21 years of age. Please select the answer below which best describes how you meet this requirement.
 A. I am at least 21 years old.
 B. I do not meet the minimum entry age requirement as listed above.
9. MANDATORY MAXIMUM ENTRY AGE

Applicants for this position must be at least 21 years of age AND have not reached their 37th birthday prior to the closing date of this job opportunity announcement and upon appointment to this position OR you meet one of the mandatory entry age exceptions. Please select the answer below which best describes how you meet this requirement.
 A. I am at least 21 years old and under the age of 37; I will not exceed the age of 37 at the time of appointment.
 B. I am 37 years of age or older and have prior Federal service in a primary covered position sufficient to complete 20 years of service on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57.
 C. I am 37 years of age or older AND a veterans’ preference eligible.
 D. I am 37 years of age or older AND under the age of 40 years AND in receipt an official Maximum Entry Age Waiver Memorandum approved by the National Park Service, Director of Law Enforcement.
 E. I do not meet the maximum entry age requirements as listed above.
10. As part of the official duties of this position, the incumbent is required to operate a Government vehicle. As such, applicants are required to have a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job opportunity announcement.

Please note: You will be required to submit proof of a valid Motor Vehicle Operator's License before your entrance-on-duty date. Please select the answer below which best describes how you meet this license requirement.
 A. I have a valid State-issued Driver's License.
 B. I will be able to obtain a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job opportunity announcement.
 C. I do NOT have a valid State-issued Driver's License and unable to obtain one prior to the closing date of the job opportunity announcement. By selecting this option, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement and will be not be considered for this position.
Location Negotiable is when an agency has multiple agency worksites where a position can be filled, and the position is not designated as remote. If you select "Location Negotiable," you are agreeing that you are willing to be hired and placed at any park location listed in the job opportunity announcement. However, for this temporary promotion/detail job opportunity announcement, every effort will be made for the selectee(s) to be placed at their current park if a position is available.
11. Location Negotiable Verification: Location Negotiable after Selection is when an agency has multiple agency worksites where a position can be filled, and the position is not designated as remote. By responding "Yes" to this Location Negotiable item, you are certifying that you are willing to be hired and placed at any park location listed in the participating locations link found in the job opportunity announcement. However, applicants will have the opportunity to learn more about which locations are hiring, and accept or decline a specific location prior to entrance-on-duty. To the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in these preferences are true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
12. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
13. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
14. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
15. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
16. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.
Assessment 1
BASIC EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION SECTION: THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT ALL RESPONSES. IF NOT, YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED AND/OR YOU WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED.
Minimum Qualification Requirements for Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-11
1. From the descriptions below, select ONE response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and/or education requirements for a Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-11 position. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 (or GL-09) level in the federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Specialized experience includes: substantial prior primary law enforcement experience either inside or outside the Federal government which includes experience in investigating, apprehending or detaining criminals or criminal suspects. You must include hours per week worked on your resume.
 B. I have successfully completed three full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education, or a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree at an accredited college or university, in a field of major study that is directly related to the work of the position such as: natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. Course work in fields other than those specified may be accepted if it clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance in the position to be filled. Note: You must include a copy of your academic transcripts with your application if qualifying on education.
 C. I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described above To calculate your percentage of qualifying graduate education, divide your number of semester hours in excess of 36 semester hours by 18, or the number your school uses to represent one year of full time graduate academic study. To calculate your percentage of experience, divide your months of qualifying specialized experience by 12. Add the two percentages. They must equal at least 100% to qualify using this option. Note: You must include a copy of your academic transcripts with your application if qualifying on education and you must include hours per week worked on your resume.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.
Read each question carefully and select the response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. Failure to respond to a question will result in an ineligible rating.
Type I Law Enforcement Commission (Selective Factor)

2. In addition to the requirements in the questions above, selectees must possess a National Park Service Type I Law Enforcement Commission by the closing date of the announcement, which requires successful completion of an approved Law Enforcement Training Program. Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for these positions. Applicants must document how they meet this requirement, as indicated below, to be considered qualified for this position.
 A. I currently hold, or have previously held, a National Park Service full Type I Law Enforcement Commission within the past three years. Note: If you do not submit a copy of your Type I Law Enforcement Commission with your application package, then you MUST include your Type I Law Enforcement Commission number with expiration date within your resume.
 B. I do NOT possess a Type I Law Enforcement Commission.
Primary Law Enforcement Experience (Selective Factor)
3. This is a covered secondary law enforcement position under the special retirement provisions of 5 U.S. C. 8336(c) (CSRS) and 8412(d) (FERS). In addition to the qualifying experience and/or education described above, applicants for this position must possess experience gained by substantial service in a primary law enforcement position or equivalent. Please select the response below that best describes how you meet this requirement.
 A. I have substantial, documented experience in a primary law enforcement position in the Federal government, or equivalent documented experience outside the Federal government.
 B. I do NOT meet the primary law enforcement experience requirements for this position.
Credentialed Field Training Officer (Selective Factor)
4. Must currently be a credentialed Field Training Officer for the NPS Field Training and Evaluation Program. Please select the response below that best describes how you meet this requirement.
 A. I am currently a credentialed Field Training Officer for the NPS Field Training and Evaluation Program.
 B. I am NOT a credentialed Field Training Officer for the NPS Field Training Program.
Verification Statement
5. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

Failure to agree to this statement will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected