Position Title
Recreation aid (Community)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
EUR25-156R Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, June 26, 2025 to Tuesday, September 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
1. Are you a U.S. Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a spouse of a Active Duty service member or DoD Civilian (this does not include contractors) or a dependent (under age 23) of an Active Duty service member or DoD Civilian on official orders to Naples? Orders must be uploaded and have a report date within 30 days of the closing date of this announcement to be considered.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you have the ability to follow verbal and written instructions?
 A. Yes, I have the ability to follow verbal and written instructions
 B. No, I do not have the ability to follow verbal and written instructions
4. Select the statement that best describes your work experience demonstrating the ability to perform minor maintenance on equipment.
 A. I have more than 3 years of work experience demonstrating the ability to perform minor maintenance of equipment
 B. I have 1-3 years of work experience demonstrating the ability to perform minor maintenance of equipment
 C. I have less than 1 year of work experience demonstrating the ability to perform minor maintenance of equipment
 D. I have no work experience demonstrating the ability to perform minor maintenance of equipment
5. Do you possess a valid CPR Card and First Aid Card?
 A. Yes, I possess a valid CPR Card and First Aid Card AND will upload a copy of both
 B. No, I do not possess a valid CPR Card or First Aid Card but I am able to obtain both within 30 days
 C. I am not able to obtain a CPR Card and/or First Aid Card
6. Select the statement that best describes your work experience in recreation or service-oriented activity.
 A. I have more than 2 years of work experience in recreation or service-oriented activity
 B. I have 6 months - 2 years of work experience in recreation or service-oriented activity
 C. I have less than 6 months of work experience in recreation or service-oriented activity
 D. I have no work experience in recreation or service-oriented activity
7. Select the statement that best describes your work experience demonstrating knowledge of Gold rules and regulations.
 A. I have more than 3 years of work experience demonstrating knowledge of Golf rules and regulations
 B. I have 1- 3 years of work experience demonstrating knowledge of Golf rules and regulations
 C. I have less than 1 year of work experience demonstrating knowledge of Golf rules and regulations
 D. I have no work experience demonstrating knowledge of Golf rules and regulations
8. Select the best statement that describes your work experience demonstrating the ability to maintain records and reports.
 A. I have more than 3 years of work experience demonstrating the ability to maintain records and reports
 B. I have 1- 3 years of work experience demonstrating the ability to maintain records and reports
 C. I have less than 1 year of work experience demonstrating the ability to maintain records and reports
 D. I have no work experience demonstrating the ability to maintain records and reports
9. Do you have the ability to interact with a wide variety of diverse people (Command Leadership, Military members, Civilians, family members and non-native English speaking patrons)?
 A. Yes, I have the ability to interact with a wide variety of diverse people
 B. No, I do not have the ability to interact with a wide variety of diverse people
10. Are the answers to this questionnaire supported by the experience/knowledge information provided in your resume and uploaded supporting documents (i.e. transcripts if qualifying based on education)?
 A. No, I have not provided supporting evidence of my questionnaire answers in my resume. I understand by not supporting my experience levels indicated here with my resume, my application will not be considered
 B. Yes, my answers to this questionnaire are reflected in my resume and supporting documents
11. Did you upload all required documents such as resume (to include 3 professional references or current letters of reference), OF306, Sponsors Official Orders, No Fee Passport, Italian Visa, Sojourner's permit, and any supporting documents, such as proof of education, if applicable?
 A. No, I did not upload all required documents. I understand that my application will not be considered further
 B. Yes, I uploaded all required documents
12. I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my statements on this employment application are true, correct, complete and made in good faith.
 A. No
 B. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my statements on this employment application are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected