Position Title
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
Agency
Export-Import Bank of the United States
Announcement Number
D25-MJ-12800781-OBAF Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP):   I am a current or former Export Import Bank of the United States employee displaced from a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy. I have a current (or last) performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent. Applicants eligible under CTAP are provided priority selection for vacancies within the local commuting area for which they apply and are well qualified. NOTE: If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a reduction in force (RIF) separation notice, a SF50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area. You must also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. US Citizen:  Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Current or Former Political Appointees:  The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Schedule A or Schedule C political appointee, or an appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?

-OR-

Are you a current or former political appointee or non-career SES Executive Branch employee?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP):  I am a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency (e.g., IRS, VA, Dept of Labor, etc.) in the same local commuting area of the vacancy. I have a current (or last) performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent. Applicants eligible under ICTAP are provided priority selection for vacancies within the local commuting area for which they apply and are well qualified. NOTE: If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a reduction in force (RIF) separation notice, a SF50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area. You must also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your resume and supporting documents must support the responses you select (Failure to provide a response below may result in further lack of consideration for this announcement).
1. Select the one answer that best describes your education level and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for the Mechanical Engineer position. Please remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification. You may be asked to provide specific transcripts and/or documentation as proof to support your answer below.

 A. I possess a bachelor's degree in engineering. The curriculum was in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. (Transcripts required)
 B. I possess a bachelor's degree in engineering. The curriculum included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Transcripts required)
 C. I possess a professional registration - Current registration as a professional engineer, Engineer Intern (EI), or Engineer in Training (EIT) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Copy of current registration required)
 D. I possess a licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) ? Current licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Copy of current license required)
 E. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration which is administered by the Boards of Engineering Examiners by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and/or Puerto Rico. (Copy of successful completion of FE or equivalent exam required)
 F. I possess specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and in engineering that included the courses specified in the basic requirements. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum as described in the bachelor's degree requirements. (Transcripts required)
 G. I possess related curriculum -- Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive. (Transcripts and documentation required)
 H. I do not possess any of the basic requirements above.
2. Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service or other equivalent pay system that has equipped you to perform the major duties of this position? This specialized experience includes:
-Experience utilizing and applying advanced knowledge of mechanical engineering principles and professional practices from the mechanical engineering sector to properly evaluate technical analyses and designs and make authoritative technical determinations that support decisions on authorization of financial support for project related transactions;
-Experience assessing technical risks and technical feasibility of projects in the mechanical engineering sector, such as thermal, nuclear, and geothermal power generation; industrial manufacturing; industrial processing facilities, mechanical expansion/upgrades of existing industrial facilities; energy storage and transmission, and other transformational export fields.; and
-Experience in the review process for complex project related documentation, such as Engineering Specifications, Procurement and Construction contracts, permits, and feasibility studies to assess feasibility and performance risk. A. Yes (Your resume must reflect this specialized experience in order to qualify for the GS-13 grade level)
 A. Yes (Your resume must reflect this specialized experience in order to qualify for the GS-13 grade level)
 B. My experience is not reflected in the description above.
3. Please indicate which position(s) on your resume supports this response (include title, agency/organization, dates of experience (month/year to month/year) DO NOT COPY AND PASTE
RESUME or state 'REFER TO RESUME'.
4. Select the one statement that most accurately reflects your professional certification status.
 A. I am currently registered as a Professional Engineer licensed by any State, District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 B. I was previously registered as a Professional Engineer licensed by any State, District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 C. I am not currently and have never been registered as a Professional Engineer licensed by any State, District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
5. Select the one statement that most accurately reflects your experience with respect to mechanical engineering.
 A. I have no experience related to this activity.
 B. I know how to evaluate the technical and environmental performance of projects in the electrical engineering sector.
 C. I serve as a recognized subject matter expert on a broad range of electrical engineering practices by providing advice on technical feasibility and risk.
 D. I provide technical evaluations on large projects in the electrical industry that are the subject of application for financing.
6. Please indicate which position(s) on your resume supports this response (include title, agency/organization, dates of experience (month/year to month/year) DO NOT COPY AND PASTE
RESUME or state 'REFER TO RESUME'.
7. Select the one statement that most accurately reflects your experience with respect to assessing the environmental and social impacts of a project.
 A. I have no experience related to this activity.
 B. I have experience/training in applying environmental science to evaluate the environmental effects of proposed projects in the electrical engineering sector.
 C. I am responsible for evaluating the environmental and social effects of proposed projects in the electrical engineering sector.
 D. I participate in the development and administration of organization-wide policies related to the environmental and social matters associated with projects in the electrical engineering sector.
8. Please indicate which position(s) on your resume supports this response (include title, agency/organization, dates of experience (month/year to month/year) DO NOT COPY AND PASTE
RESUME or state 'REFER TO RESUME'.
9. Select the one or more statements that most accurately reflects your experience with respect to effectively collaborating and communicating with others both inside and outside of your organization.
 A. I have effectively communicated technical information, research findings, recommendations, changes, and/or alternative viewpoints to internal or external audiences either verbally and/or in writing.
 B. I have produced original, formal written evaluations for the purpose of documenting technical findings and informing decision makers.
 C. I have provided briefings/updates to supervisors, coworkers, or others on a regular basis.
 D. I adapt my approach to appeal to the interests of others, including levels of understanding and audiences.
 E. I use my in-depth understanding of an individual or group dynamic to convey my point of view to others, either verbally and/or in writing.
 F. I have no experience related to this activity.
10. Please indicate which position(s) on your resume supports this response (include title, agency/organization, dates of experience (month/year to month/year) DO NOT COPY AND PASTE
RESUME or state 'REFER TO RESUME'.
11. Select the one statement that most accurately reflects your experience participating in internal working groups or representing your work unit at meetings.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this task and my work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have performed this task independently and often, without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have supervised others in performing this task.
12. Please indicate which position(s) on your resume supports this response (include title, agency/organization, dates of experience (month/year to month/year) DO NOT COPY AND PASTE
RESUME or state 'REFER TO RESUME'.
13. Select one or more statements that describe your experience identifying and analyzing problems; making logical decisions; and providing solutions.
 A. I have identified and analyzed problems and distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions.
 B. I have provided data-driven solutions to individual and organizational problems.
 C. I have used qualitative data and analytical tools in problem solving.
 D. I have identified problems/issues in communicating information to specific audiences and developed a plan to reach the audience with specific information.
 E. I have identified technical concerns and effectively worked with stakeholders to develop appropriate resolutions that meet customer requirements.
 F. I have no experience related to this activity.
14. Please indicate which position(s) on your resume supports this response (include title, agency/organization, dates of experience (month/year to month/year) DO NOT COPY AND PASTE
RESUME or state 'REFER TO RESUME'.
15. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and all supporting materials, including my resume, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected