Position Title
Dentist (General Practice)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJA253970684535HWS Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 27, 2025 to Friday, December 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Dentist (General Practice) position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Dentist (General Practice) at the GP-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.  (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 A. I have a Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) or Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS) degree from a school approved by the American Dental Association (ADA) or the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA) or an accrediting boy recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.
 B. I do not possess the education described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. The Dentist occupation requires passing of the National Board Dental Examinations (NBDE) which are developed and administered by the Joint Commission on National Dental Examinations (JCNDE) and possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice dentistry in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. Have you passed the NBDE and possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice dentistry in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States? (Note: You must attach a copy of your licensure.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or qualifying experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of the Dentist (General Practice) at the GP-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. (Qualifying experience involves the evaluation, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases, injuries, and disorders of the oral cavity and maxillofacial area. Examples of dentistry experience may include the removal of decay; filling cavities; straightening, extracting, and repairing teeth; treating gum diseases; performing corrective surgery; making measurements/models for dentures to replace missing teeth, administering anesthetics, writing prescriptions; and performing other requirements of the position.)
 A. I have completed a 2-year residency program in dentistry, oral health, craniofacial sciences, or a related medical science.
 B. I have two years of professional dentistry experience and/or training, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GP-11).
 C. I have completed a residency program in dentistry, oral health, craniofacial sciences, or a related medical science AND professional dentistry experience and/or training equivalent to the next lower grade level (GP-11). The combination of my residency program and professional dentistry experience and/or training is equal to or greater than two years.
 D. I have the education and/or experience as described in A and in B.
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
4. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected