Position Title
Dietitian (Clinical)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12788564-25-EDM Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
2. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements.

NOTE: Applicants pending the completion of the registration requirement may be selected (GS-07 or GS-09 only) and given a one-year temporary appointment. Please indicate Yes or No for the following questions:
BASIC REQUIREMENTS - 
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY - Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. REGISTRATION - Are you currently or will you be registered with the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing branch of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics formerly known as the American Dietetic Association (ADA) as a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN) or Registered Dietitian (RD)?

Note: Exception for Dietitians who do not possess the RDN/RD credential. Non-credentialed Dietitians who otherwise meet the basic qualification requirements and have fulfilled the requirements below, but do not possess the RDN credential, may be given a full-time temporary appointment not to exceed one year under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2). May only be appointed at the GS-07 or GS-09 level and may not be promoted/converted until they obtain their RDN credential.

Non-credentialed Dietitians must have fulfilled each of the following:
 
Earned a bachelor's or higher degree from a U.S. regionally accredited college or university or foreign equivalent (refer to ii below). Foreign Education. To be creditable, college and/or university degrees earned outside the U.S and its territories must be evaluated by ACEND and meet ACEND's International Dietitian Education standards which are designed to provide graduates with the knowledge and competencies to sit for the CDR credentialing exam.
Completed an ACEND accredited experiential or supervised practice program and provide a verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN. A list of ACEND accredited programs are located on the ACEND website or at ACEND Accredited Programs Directory.
 A. Yes
 B. No
GRANDFATHERING PROVISION - VHA employees in this occupation, under a permanent, appropriate and legal placement on the effective date of the qualification standard, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and registration/certification, where applicable. Employees appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, either on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard. The following provisions apply to employees who do not meet all the qualification requirements:

     1. Employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level or changed to a lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journey level or be newly placed in a supervisory or managerial position.
     2. Employees must meet the assignment-specific certification/education requirements to be placed in Dietitian (Advanced Level Practice) or Dietitian (Dietetic Internship Director) assignments.
     3. Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation who subsequently obtain additional education and/or registration/certification that meet all the qualification standard's basic or assignment-specific requirements must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation/assignment.
     4. Employees retained in this occupation under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re- entry in the occupation.
3. Please indicate your registration type (RDN or RD), issue date, and/or date you expect to take the registration exam.
GRADE LEVEL ASSESSMENT - 
Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. FOR GS7 - Dietitian (Clinical/Developmental/Entry Level)

Do you meet the basic requirements for this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. FOR GS9 - Dietitian (Clinical/Developmental) -

Experience/Education Requirement - In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-09 do you possess at least 1 year of experience as an RDN/RD equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-07) including the following assignment-specific requirements (assignments at the GS7 level are expected to be performed under the guidance of a Dietitian at the full performance level)?
 
Conduct nutrition assessments for patients with lower acuity using NCP.
Apply evidence-based nutritional practice guidelines.
Interpret research, apply whole health principles, and develop patient-centered goals.
Complete patient encounters and maintain accurate patient records.
Collaborate with service and facility staff to enhance dining experience and satisfaction.

OR

Do you possess a Master's degree from a regionally accredited university or college in the fields of dietetics, food, nutrition, food service management, institution management or related science?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. GS9 KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES (KSA) - In addition to the experience or education requirements for the GS9 grade level, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of various accrediting and regulatory requirements.
Knowledge of virtual technology to provide nutrition care.
Ability to deliver patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
Ability to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
Ability to develop patient-centered goals.
Does your resume demonstrate the KSA requirements listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. FOR GS11 - Dietitian (Clinical/Full Performance Level)

Experience Requirement - In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-11 do you possess at least 1 year of experience as an RDN/RD equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09)  including the following assignment-specific requirements (assignments at the GS9 level are expected to be performed under general supervision)?
 
Conduct nutrition assessments using the NCP.
Apply evidence-based nutrition practice guidelines.
Utilize whole health principles to develop patient-centered goals.
Utilize virtual care technology.
Maintain accurate record-keeping practices in accordance with organizational requirements.
Collect data related to performance improvement activities and assist with implementing new initiatives.

Note: There is no education substitution for experience at this grade level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
8. GS11 KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES (KSA) REQUIREMENT - In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Skill in delivering patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
Skill in interpreting research to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
Skill in developing patient-centered goals.
Skill in analyzing data for performance improvement studies.
Skill in collaborating with stakeholders.
Ability to comply with various accrediting, regulatory and agency authorities.
Does your resume demonstrate the KSA requirements listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected