Position Title
Cook - Pier Side Bowling
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25622 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 24, 2025 to Thursday, August 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 A. Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 B. No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
3. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Cook, NA-7407-04 position.  Your resume and the responses to this assessment questionnaire will be evaluated to determine if you are among the best qualified for referral to the selection panel. Failure to respond to any question or to include any required document with your application package may result in an ineligible rating. Select the answers that best reflects your level of experience or describes your expertise.
1. Your resume must reflect how your background meets the experience requirements for the Cook, NA-7404-04 position. If you are qualifying based on education, you must include your transcripts with your application package. Have you attached your transcripts to your application package, and/or included relevant qualifying experience in your resume?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you possess the knowledge and understanding of food handling techniques, personal hygiene standards, and safe work procedures? Thorough knowledge of the full range of food preparation principles including the techniques and procedures necessary to develop new or revise current recipes and prepare and cook food in large quantities.
 A. I have at least one (1) year or experience in this area.
 B. I have at least six (6) months of experience in this area.
 C. I do not have any experience in this area.
 D. I have more than two (2) years of experience in this area.
3. Do you possess any formal culinary training and/or education?
 A. I have a degree from a culinary institute. (Must include certificate or degree for proof of education)
 B. I received culinary specialist training through the military.
 C. I received some formal training but did not complete a program. (Must provide proof of education)
 D. I possess no formal training certificate or degree, but I have on the job training experience.
4. This position requires the incumbent to have knowledge of the method of general cooking, baking, preparing, and serving quality food in mass quantities for large groups of people. Select the statement that best describes your experience. 


 A. I have at least one (1) year of experience in this area.
 B. I do not have any experience in this area.
 C. I have at least six (6) months of experience in this area.
 D. I have more than two (2) years of experience in this area.
5. Select the statement that best describes your actual cooking experience in the food service industry.
 A. I have more than two (2) years of experience.
 B. I have at least six (6) months of experience.
 C. I have at least one (1) year of experience.
 D. I do not have any experience with cooking in the food industry.
6. Do you have experience in preparation of and cooking different types of foods, such as, vegetables, meats, seafood, salads, and baking desserts?
 A. Yes, I have experience in preparation of and cooking different types of foods.
 B. No, I have no experience in preparation of and cooking different types of foods.
7. Are you able to communicate both orally and in writing?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected