Position Title
MWR Community Recreation Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12797646 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Tuesday, September 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the MWR Community Recreation Director. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.

Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have a four-year undergraduate degree in Recreation OR three years of comparable experience that illustrates a progression in recreation management experience?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please select the response below that best describes your experience managing a recreation program.

 A. Current position is within DOD recreation program at a large installation
 B. Previous position was within DOD recreation program at large installation
 C. Current position is in DoD recreation program at medium/small installation
 D. Previous position was within a DoD recreation program or private sector recreation program at medium/small installation or facility
 E. I have not managed a recreation program.
3. Please select the response that best describes your experience with NAF and APF budget preparation and accounting system knowledge.

 A. Current/previous position demonstrates experience in NAF and APF budget preparation and accounting system knowledge
 B. Current/previous positions demonstrate experience in budget preparation and knowledge of accounting
 C. Current positions demonstrate experience in budget preparation and knowledge of accounting
 D. Current and/or previous position involved providing accounting and or budget input to higher level management
 E. No experience with the above.
4. Select the response below that best describes your experience with the following DOD MWR programs; OAC rentals, Conducting Trips, Kayak/SUP rentals, Vehicle/RV Storage, Small Food/Beverage operation, and Car Wash.

 A. I have experience with all six of the above listed programs.
 B. I have experience with five of the six above listed programs.
 C. I have experience with four of the six above listed programs.
 D. I have experience with three of the six above listed programs.
 E. I have experience with two of the six above listed programs.
 F. I have experience with one of the six above listed programs.
 G. I have no experience with the above listed programs.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected