Position Title
Medical Records Technician (Clinical Documentation Improvement Specialist (CDIS-Outpatient))
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12794229-25-PH Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 3, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers.


This section pertains to the basic requirements for Medical Record Technician (Coder). You must meet the basic requirements based on creditable experience, education or an experience/ education combination. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcript(s) for any education used to satisfy the basic requirement.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Medical Records Technician (Coder) work.

 I possess one (1) year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of health records, OR
 I possess an associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records); OR
 I have completed an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy and physiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPT coding. The training program must have led to eligibility for coding certification/certification examination, and the sponsoring academic institution must have been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, or comparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed, OR
 I possess a combination of creditable experience and education qualifying for meeting the basic requirements. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience: (a)Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, and one year above high school, with a minimum of 6 semester hours of health information technology courses. (b)Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also, it requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paid employment equivalent to an MRT (Coder).
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in any of the above statements.


Basic Requirement: The following item is related to the required certification. Persons hired or reassigned to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA must possess one of the following required certifications below (a copy of certification must be included with application) (1) Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC (2) Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC (3) Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS


2.
Select the response below that best describes your certification.

 Apprentice/Associate level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC
 Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC
 Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS
 I do not hold any of the above certifications


Grade Determination GS-9: In addition to meeting the basic requirements for Medical Record Technician (Coder), you must also possess one year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (MRT (Coder-Inpatient) GS-8) in the federal government OR An associate's degree or higher, and three years of experience in the clinical documentation improvement (candidates must also have successfully completed coursework in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records); OR Mastery level certification through AHIMA or AAPC, and two years of experience in clinical documentation improvement; OR Clinical experience such as RN, M.D, or D.O. and one year experience in the clinical documentation improvement AND must fully meet the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs) at that level. It should be noted that Medical Billing experience is NOT a creditable experience for Medical Record Coding. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all the following KSAs: (1) Knowledge of coding and documentation concepts, guidelines, and clinical terminology. (2) Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, pathophysiology, and pharmacology to interpret and analyze all information in a patient's health record, including laboratory and other test results, to identify opportunities for more precise and/or complete documentation in the health record. (3) Ability to collect and analyze data and present results in various formats, which may include presenting reports to various organizational levels. (4) Ability to establish and maintain strong verbal and written communication with providers. (5) Knowledge of regulations that define healthcare documentation requirements, including The Joint Commission, CMS, and VA guidelines. (6) Extensive knowledge of coding rules and regulations, to include current clinical classification systems such as ICD, CPT and HSCPCS. (7) Knowledge of CPT evaluation and management (E/M) criteria to ensure the correct selection of E/M codes that match patient type, setting of service and level of E/M service provided. (8) Knowledge of training methods and teaching skills is sufficient to conduct continuing education for staff development. The training sessions may be technical in nature or may focus on teaching techniques for the improvement of clinical documentation issues.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-8 level and possess the KSAs at the GS-9 level as described above?

 Yes
 No


4.
Grade Determination GS-9: Employees at this level must have either a mastery level certification or a clinical documentation improvement certification.
Select the response below that best describes your certification.

 Certified Coding Specialist (CCS)
 Certified Coding Specialist - Physician-based (CCS-P)
 Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT)
 Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA)
 Certified Professional Coder (CPC)
 Certified Outpatient Coder (COC)
 Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC)
 Clinical Documentation Improvement Practitioner (CDIP)
 Certified Clinical Documentation Specialist
 I do not possess any of the above certifications


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Medical Record Technician (Coder) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d).
Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙