Position Title
Cook
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
KW25-12781388 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Monday, October 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
Do you live within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

This information will be based on the address listed on your resume and USA Jobs. The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live or work and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes
 No


2.
If you do not currently reside within the local commuting area, are you eligible for military spouse preference AND submitted all required documents as listed in the announcement? (You must still claim the eligibility when applying).
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
I understand that this position requires working irregular hours, such as night shift, and am willing to work those hours.
 Yes
 No


5.
I am willing and able to work an Flexible work schedule. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty; hours are from 0-40 hours per week.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Cook, NA-7404-06, position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select, from below, which sentence best describes your experience level with food preparation e.g. prepare hot and cold food items, plan cooking process to produce a complete meal on time and at proper temperature, and operate specialized equipment to cook food in large quantities and to rapidly chill and store the prepared items under refrigeration for long periods of time.
 I have 3 years of experience, as described above, with food preparation.
 I have 2 to 3 years of experience, as described above, with food preparation.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience, as described above, with food preparation.
 I have less than 1 year of experience, as described above, with food preparation.
 I have no experience, as described above, with food preparation.


2.
Do you have basic reading, writing and math skills in order to read and interpret complex recipes and compute changes required to increase/decrease number of portions?
 Yes, I have the skills as described above.
 No, I don't have the skills as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have with the operation, use, care and cleaning of equipment and utensils required to prevent foodborne illness and food contamination?
 I have more than 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 - 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1- 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙