Position Title
Government Information Specialist (FOIA/PA)
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
OIP-25-12805993-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 24, 2025 to Wednesday, October 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Are you the spouse of a deployed, disabled, or deceased member of the military?
Federal agencies can use the military spouse non-competitive hiring process to fill positions on either a temporary or permanent basis.

You may be eligible if you are:

A spouse of an active duty member of the armed forces. OR
A spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury. OR
A spouse of a service member killed while on active duty.

You are no longer eligible if you remarry. You must meet certain criteria for each of these eligibility categories. Your eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the Federal Government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation. Learn more about the specific criteria for military spouses...

To verify your eligibility for option 1: You must submit a copy of the PCS (permanent change of station) orders indicating you are authorized to relocate on those orders.
To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3: You must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Are you a current or former employee of a Base Facilities or Land Management agency?

For Land Management employees: You must meet all the following criteria to claim this eligibility. You must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act. 

You worked for a land management agency.
Your job was a term or temporary job in the competitive service.
You worked for a land management agency for more than 24 months - it doesn't have to be continuous, as long as there's no break of two or more years.
You received acceptable performance ratings throughout your term or temporary employment.
You did not leave your job due to misconduct or performance.

For Base Facilities Management employees: You must be on a time-limited (a term or temporary appointment) employee of a Defense Industrial Base Facility or the Major Range and Test Facilities Base, you must meet all of the following criteria to claim this eligibility. You will need to submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form. See Base Management on USAJOBS for more information.

You're a current or former employee of a Defense Industrial Base Facility or the Major Range and Test Facilities Base.
Your job is or was a time-limited appointment in the competitive service.
You were originally hired under open, competitive examination under Sub-chapter I of Chapter 33 of such title to the time-limited appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a foreign service employee meeting either of the conditions stated below?

Have you completed at least 1 year of continuous service immediately before separation from one or more non-temporary Foreign Service appointments, in the Foreign Service immediately before separation from an unlimited, career-type appointment in that Service?
-OR-
Are you a current or former limited non-career appointee with the Foreign Service and have at least 48 months of continuous service, a performance rating of satisfactory or better, and if a former employee, no more than a one year break in service since your qualifying appointment?

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF- 50) reflecting your non-temporary status. If you are outside of the 3-year requirement but are entitled to veteran's preference, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?
The Inter-agency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an inter-agency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:

You're a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF).
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce.
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area.
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.

For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current or Former Federal Employees

Are you a current or former Federal employee who:
Has held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service AND
Has not held the grade level of the position being advertised AND/OR
Has not held the promotion potential of the position being advertised?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.
To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your position title/series/grade/step, service type, appointment type, tenure, and your organization.

Please do not submit an award SF-50.


 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current or Former Federal Employees

Are you a current or former Federal employee who has:
held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service; AND
held the target grade level of the position being advertised; OR
held the promotion potential to the target grade level of the position being advertised?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your position title/series/grade/step, service type, appointment type, tenure, your organization, and your full performance level.  Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1."  Please do not submit an award SF-50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member meeting the conditions below?
You're eligible if you have at least two years of service with the Peace Corps or one year of service with AmeriCorps VISTA.
Your non-competitive eligibility lasts for one year after completing your Peace Corps or AmeriCorps service. Federal agencies may extend the period for up to three years if, after your completed service, you are:
In the military service.
Studying at a recognized institution of higher learning.
Involved in another activity, which in the agency's view, warrants an extension.

Your non-competitive eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the federal government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation.

When applying for a job, include your Peace Corps or AmeriCorps VISTA certification of service documents with your application and make sure to mention your non-competitive eligibility status on your resume. See National Service Organizations, Peace Corps & VISTA on USAJOBS for more information...

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you claiming eligibility based on an OPM interchange agreement or other special authority?

You may be eligible under a special authority if you are a:

Former employee of the Canal Zone Merit System or Panama Canal Employment System.
Former employee who served in the Office of the President or Vice-President or on the White House Staff.
Former incumbent of a position brought into the competitive service.
Disabled veteran who has completed a training course under Chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code.
Former ACTION volunteer.
Current or former Foreign Service officer or employee.
Former employee of the Panama Canal Commission located in the United States.
Current or former employee of the U.S. Postal Service.

There are specific eligibility requirements for each of these special hiring authorities. Please read OPM's code of federal hiring regulations for more details.

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you an overseas employee or family member of an overseas employee moving back to the U.S.?

If you're currently overseas with a family member, and moving back to the United States, you may be eligible for a competitive service job without having to compete with the public, if you meet all of the following:

You're living overseas with a family member, who is officially assigned to an overseas duty station.
You're the family member's spouse, domestic partner, or unmarried child younger than 23.
You've worked at least 52 weeks in an appropriated fund position, under a local hire appointment.
You've received a successful (or equivalent) performance rating during your time on the job.

If you're eligible, you can:

Apply for competitive service jobs, within the United States, and agencies can hire you directly without having to compete with the public.
Apply to merit promotion jobs, if the job application states "open to family of overseas employees".
To verify your eligibility: You will need to include your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form and the orders or deployment notice for the qualifying family member.

For more information, review USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources...
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
13. Are you applying for eligibility based on the Schedule A hiring authority for the employment of persons with severe physical, intellectual, or psychiatric disabilities?
Schedule A refers to a special hiring authority that gives Federal agencies an optional, and potentially quicker, way to hire individuals with disabilities. Applying under Schedule A offers an exception to the traditional competitive hiring process. You can apply for jobs using Schedule A, if you are a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability. Learn more about Schedule A...

Notes about Schedule A eligibility: 
You must provide "proof of a disability" documentation with your application, stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
Veterans with a 30% (or greater) disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can qualify for Schedule A by submitting your VA Letter as part of your application and by claiming this eligibility option.
Appointments under Schedule A are in the Excepted Service, but are eligible for conversion to the Competitive Service after 2 years with a successful performance rating and at the recommendation of management. (If you are already in a competitive service appointment, you would be converted back to the excepted service if you take an appointment under Schedule A.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998 (VEOA)?

VEOA is a special hiring authority, which gives eligible Veterans access to positions that otherwise may have only been available to current competitive service employees. In VEOA appointments, preference eligibles and Veterans are not given preference, but they are allowed to compete for job opportunities that are not offered to other external candidates. A VEOA eligible who is selected will be given a career or career-conditional appointment.
Eligibility  To verify your eligibility under VEOA you will need to submit appropriate supporting documentation that verifies your Veteran status, which may include a DD-214 (Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty), an SF-15 (Application of 10-point Veterans Preference), or comparable documentation.

VEOA eligibility applies to the following categories of Veterans:
Preference eligibles
Service personnel separated after three or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions.
Additional Resources
Feds Hire Vets - Special Hiring Authorities for Veterans
Frequently Asked Questions - Veterans (OPM)
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service.  For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, please submit the Member #4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter with the disability rating. 
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
12
13
2. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 B. No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 C. I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of these requirements and conditions.
1. You will be required to complete a pre-employment security investigation and background check which includes a drug screening. Do you accept this condition?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. You may be required to complete a one-year probationary or two-year trial period. Do you accept this condition?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Selective Service registration is required for males born on, or after, December 31st 1959. Those not registered must submit an approved exemption. Please select the response that best fits how you meet this condition of employment. Please click here (https://www.sss.gov/faq/#who-needs-to-register) to learn more about who needs to register.
 A. I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have registered for the Selective Service System.
 B. I am a male born before December 31st 1959, and am not required to registered for the Selective Service System.
 C. I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have not registered for the Selective Service System, but have a valid approved exemption. (Documentation must be submitted with your application.)
 D. I am not a male and am not required to register.
 E. I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have not yet registered for the Selective Service System.
4. You must meet all eligibility requirements by the closing date of this announcement and continue to meet these requirements throughout the hiring process. Offers can be rescinded if requirements are not met. Do you accept this condition?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Government Information Specialist, GS-0306-09/11 position with the United States Department of Justice, Office of Information Policy, Initial Request Staff.  Your resume and responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification.  Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement below that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Government Information Specialist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level or equivalent in the Federal service that meets 3 of the 5 statements below: 1) Reviews documents to identify and redact sensitive information under FOIA and PA exemptions; 2) Reviews incoming FOIA/PA requests from search to final response; 3) Drafts written responses to requesters and prepares status reports for senior leadership; 4) Maintains FOIA/PA database and formal administrative records; 5) Utilize automated tools and software to organize documentation, information, and/or evidence.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Government Information Specialist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience to at least the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service that meets 5 of the 6 statements: 1) Communicates and negotiates with requesters regarding Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act (FOIA/PA) requests; 2) Conducts record searches in response to FOIA requests; 3) Conducts research as required to determine FOIA/PA information to be released; 4) Consults, as appropriate, with other government entities regarding responsiveness and releasability determinations; 5) Handles the above 4 tasks independently and potentially review the work of others; 6) Handles prior responses to efficiently handle new FOIA requests utilizing technology-related discovery efforts.
 B. My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
3. Your responses to the announcement and assessment questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy.  Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected