Position Title
Program Manager
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFAM-IMP-12792142-RDB Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of GS-14?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Federal employees who competed for and currently hold, or have previously held, a permanent position of GS-14 (or equivalent) or higher, may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-11 position with promotion potential to the GS-13.  The progression is GS-11, GS-12, and GS-13.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-14 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You previously held a GS-14 position on a permanent basis.  GS-14 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5.

All newly appointed, first-time CBP supervisors are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors to attend within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, first time permanent supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with current agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former first time supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?

 A. Yes
 B. No
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
7. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following statements best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level that includes• Planning, organizing, coordinating, controlling, and evaluating program activities. • Monitoring information systems of record to meet Agency mission requirements. • Creating and monitoring implementation of process metrics and process controls for individual programs or functions. • Recommending improvements in services, programs, and projects to meet deadlines. • Serving as a liaison between other program offices or government agencies to ensure compliance with policies and procedures and effective and efficient accomplishment of work.
 B. I do not possess the experience described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience in developing short and long-term project plans.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have developed short-range plans for a program (e.g., set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 C. I have participated in the development of both short- and long-range plans for a program or organization (e.g., set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 D. I have overseen the development of plans for a program or organization that were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience in monitoring or developing organizational performance measures to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of projects or programs.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have monitored organizational performance measures and made recommendations that were used in evaluating the effectiveness of operations or to assist in program administration.
 C. I have developed organizational performance measures that were used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations or to assist in program administration, and have monitored the use of these measures.
 D. I have supervised the development and application of organizational performance measures that were used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations or to assist in program administration. I have held the ultimate responsibility for ensuring the effective operation of a program.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring effective expenditures of appropriated funds.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have some experience tracking expenditures for small-scale projects against appropriated funds.
 C. I have developed and prepared budgets, budget requests, and funding requirements needed to support large and complex projects, taking into account staffing, facilities, and equipment. I have tracked expenditures of appropriated funds against these projects and developed justifications for an increase in funds when needed.
 D. I have held overall responsibility for overseeing budget preparation, budget requests, and funding requirements for one or more large organizational components, taking into account staffing, facilities, and equipment. I have ensured the effective expenditure of funds appropriated for these components and developed justifications for an increase in funds when needed.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience writing and editing reports.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written and edited reports for dissemination within my organization.
 C. I have written and edited complex reports for dissemination within my organization and for external stakeholders (for example, State/local government, the general public, and private sector organizations).
 D. I have supervised others in writing and editing complex reports for dissemination within my organization and to external stakeholders (for example, the general public, State/local government, or members of Congress).
6. Indicate the extent of your experience in evaluating the work performance of subordinate employees.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been responsible for evaluating the work performance of subordinate employees and providing informal feedback to them.
 C. I have documented subordinate employee or supervisor performance and formally rated them on a performance appraisal system.
 D. I have formally rated the work performance of subordinate supervisors on a performance appraisal system, and have evaluated performance ratings assigned by other supervisors to nonsupervisory employees.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience in reporting to higher level officials on program status or technical problems requiring resolution.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on program status or technical problems requiring resolution.
 C. I have given formal briefings to higher level officials in the organization regarding program status or technical problems requiring resolution.
 D. I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to higher level officials both within and outside my organization regarding program status or technical problems requiring resolution.
8. Select the choice which best describes your ability to establish and maintain effective working relations outside of the organization, monitor media and public relations, and build support for ideas and initiatives with the public.
 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided routine information, resolved simple problems, questions, or complaints, and directed nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints to the appropriate person/office.
 C. I have maintained relationships with members of the media and public relations personnel who have varied requests, provided moderately complex information, and assessed individuals' needs. I have resolved fairly complex or non-routine problems, questions, or complaints.
 D. I have developed and maintained relationships with members of the media and public relations personnel that have varied requests, provided complex information, and anticipated and assessed their needs. I have endeavored to ensure that problems, questions, or complaints are resolved.
9. Indicate the extent of your experience managing a program and staff that has high visibility within the organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have independently managed one or more parts of a program that was of high importance and visibility to my organizations leadership . I have had responsibility for setting timelines, establishing metrics, or managing staff.
 C. I have independently planned, implemented, and managed multiple programs that were broad in scope or were complex, involved multiple entities, and were of high importance and visibility to my organizations leadership. I have had responsibility for ensuring that needed staff were acquired, process metrics were tracked, and goals were accomplished.
10. Select the choice that best describes your ability to resolve conflicts as needed.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conferred with others in my work unit on an individual basis to resolve work-related problems.
 C. I have communicated with others within my organization to resolve problems and prevent potential conflicts.
 D. I have communicated extensively with others within my organization to reach/build consensus on problems/issues that have arisen.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience in responding to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have adapted to minor or temporary changes affecting my own assignments or work schedule by rescheduling work or refocusing my efforts.
 C. I have rearranged some priorities and rescheduled a significant amount of work to accommodate changes in resources or goals. I have recommended new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
 D. I have rearranged virtually all work priorities and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks. I have chosen or developed new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
12. Indicate the extent to which you have worked to foster ethical conduct in your workplace.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received ethics and integrity training.
 C. I have encountered situations that required me to call upon my training in ethics and integrity. I consulted with a supervisor as needed to resolve the issue.
 D. As part of my routine duties, I have advised others on the best course of action when encountering an ethics or integrity issue.
13. Indicate the extent to which you have developed and maintained effective relationships with individuals internal and external to your work group, office, and organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in collaborative operations.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, plan joint operations, and establish long-term working relationships.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience with identifying underlying problems or trends and determining alternative actions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have identified, defined, described, and compared different alternative corrective actions for routine or recurring problems or issues.
 C. I have evaluated moderately complex problems or issues and I have developed and recommended changes or corrective actions that were successful.
 D. I have identified and implemented improvements, alternative strategies, or innovative approaches that successfully resolved highly complex, intricate, or sensitive problems or issues.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected