Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12779364-25-LMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 11, 2025 to Monday, August 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Topeka, KS
 B. Canandaigua, NY
 C. Waco, TX
2. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Program Analyst position with the Veterans Health Administration. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education, experience, or combination of each that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience, education, or combination of each are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Please refer to the Qualifications and Duties sections of this announcement for detailed information.
Current Federal Employees Critical Note: Please provide your most recent SF-50 AND your latest Within Grade Increase (WIGI) or Promotion SF-50 as well. The most recent SF-50 allows us to verify your current status, appointment, agency and/or duty station to confirm your Eligibility to apply. The latest WIGI or Promotion SF-50 allows us to verify Time in Grade (TIG). Without these, we are unable to verify these requirements, and you could be deemed unqualified for not meeting Area of Consideration, TIG, or not providing the proper documentation for us to do so.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. According to the presidential memorandum signed on January 20th, 2025 by President Trump, all agencies are required to return to in-person work, link below. Do you acknowledge the Presidential return to office for Federal employees?


https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/return-to-in-person-work/

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. GS-07 Specialized Experience: Do you possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience, which equips you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the Program Analyst, GS-07 position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, this specialized experience must have been equivalent to the GS-05 level in Federal service to qualify at the GS-07. Examples of specialized experience include:

1) Knowledge and skill in using Microsoft office programs such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, etc., to store and retrieve electronic documents and files; analyze data; prepare reports with charts and graphs; utilize spreadsheets and SharePoint.
2) Ability to write clear, concise notes, session documents, and reports.
3) Oral communication skills sufficient to interact effectively with staff at various levels within the organization and the VA.
4) Ability to operate office equipment, e.g., calculator, PC, printer, etc. Ability to use specific VA programs and systems related to the technical aspects of this position.
5) Aptitude and skill in conducting analyses of functions and work processes.

Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume. You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have one (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level.

OR

GS-07 Substitution of Education for Experience (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): Do you possess 1 full year of graduate level education or Superior Academic Achievement (SAA)? Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. Superior Academic Achievement: (SAA) recognizes students who have achieved superior academic standing as evidenced by one of the four methods described below. In order to be creditable under this provision, superior academic achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled. Applicants who wish to apply under this provision must submit proof from their educational institution that they meet one of the criteria listed below. To qualify for SAA, applicants must have completed all the requirements for a bachelor's degree in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled and meet one of the following:
(1) Rank in the upper one-third of your class in the college, university, or major subdivision. (2) A grade-point average of at least "B" (a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study. (3) A grade point average of at least "B+" (a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0) average of required courses completed in the major field of study or required courses in your major completed in the last two years of undergraduate study. (4) Membership in a national honor society. Membership in a freshman honor society cannot be used. Honor societies recognized by Association of College Honor Societies. For a list of recognized honor societies please visit https://www.achshonor.org/. For more information regarding SAA please visit https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualification-policies/#url=General-Policies.

OR

GS-07 Combination of Education and Experience (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): Do you possess Equivalent combinations of successfully completed graduate education and specialized experience directly related to the work of the position, which may be substituted to meet the experience requirements for GS-07 position? To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. GS-09 Specialized Experience: Do you possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience, which equips you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the Program Analyst, GS-09 position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, this specialized experience must have been equivalent to the GS-07 level in Federal service to qualify at the GS-09. Examples of specialized experience include:

1) Applying complex fact-finding, analytical and problem-solving methods, and techniques to identify problems, set work priorities, and preparing plans and proposals.
2) Leveraging practical knowledge of the major contact center caller issues, business line operational program goals and objectives within the organization and the working relationship with the quality management program.
3) Using Microsoft office programs such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, etc., to store and retrieve electronic documents and files; analyze data; prepare reports with charts and graphs; utilize spreadsheets and SharePoint.
4) Interacting with representatives to advise on opportunities to improve quality performance, clarify processes and procedures, and other appropriate activities for improving the quality of services to internal and external customers.
5) Utilizing qualitative and quantitative analysis techniques for measuring the effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity of programs within the organization.

Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume. You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have one (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level.

OR

GS-09 Substitution of Education for Experience (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): Do you possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related? Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position.

OR

GS-09 Combination of Education and Experience (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): Do you possess equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience and education (beyond a 1 full year of graduate level education) to qualify for this position? (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.).

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected