Position Title
Supervisory Financial Manager (Chief, Budget and Financial Management)
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
IMP-12822476-26-SG Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 24, 2025 to Wednesday, October 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold? 
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s)?
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a permanent position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held the full performance level of this position on a permanent basis?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50.Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Financial Management Specialist, GS-0501-15 position with the Federal government.



1.
1. From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a Supervisory Financial Management Specialist, at the GS-0501-14 level.
 I have at least one or more full-time years (12 months) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal service: 1) Providing direction and control over Financial Management operations such as budgeting, forecasting, and reporting; 2) Advising senior management on financial, budget and resource management program matters; 3) Reviewing current and long-range program requirements to develop or update budget and financial management program plans to meet resources needs; 4) Supervising a financial, accounting, or budget staff; and 5)Developing guidelines or policy related to financial management operations. (Your resume must CLEARLY demonstrate this experience if you select this option).
 I do not have the experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙