Position Title
Lock and Dam Operator
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG250773542344HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
5
7
8
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1. Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Department of the Army Drug Free Workplace Programs. Detection of the presence of drugs is warranted. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position has been designated "Mission Essential". In the event of severe weather conditions or other such emergency type situations (natural or man-made disaster) the incumbent is required to report to work or remain at work as scheduled to support mission operations. Are you willing and able to report to work or remain at work under adverse conditions to obtain and maintain this position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position has a requirement to lift up to 50 lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 315. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 10% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 10% of the time?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. This position requires shift work to provide coverage on evenings, weekends, holidays, or special situations. Employee shifts are rotated on a regularly scheduled basis. Are you willing and able to work on a rotating shift basis to meet work requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Lock and Dam Operator position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Lock and Dam Operator duties without more than normal supervision.

 A. I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex lock operations such as operating electrically or hydraulically controlled lock and dam equipment, gates and valves. I can make minor repairs to lock and dam equipment; apply locking procedures, policies, and laws regarding traffic right-of-way, sequence of operations and safe passage of hazardous commodities and damaged crafts; and comply with governing safety practices and procedures. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 B. I have the ability to perform the full range of lock operations tasks such as operating electrically or hydraulically controlled lock and dam equipment, gates and valves. I can make minor repairs to lock and dam equipment; apply locking procedures, policies, and laws regarding traffic right-of-way, sequence of operations and safe passage of hazardous commodities and damaged crafts; and comply with governing safety practices and procedures. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 C. I have the ability to perform some common lock operations tasks such as operating electrically or hydraulically controlled lock and dam equipment, gates and valves. I can make minor repairs to lock and dam equipment; apply locking procedures, policies, and laws regarding traffic right-of-way, sequence of operations and safe passage of hazardous commodities and damaged crafts; and comply with governing safety practices and procedures. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 D. I have the ability to perform common tasks such as operating lock chamber gates and lock chamber emptying and filling valves manually or by using simple mechanical equipment. Operate radio, hydraulic pumps, air compressor, standby generators and tow haulage equipment. I have the ability to perform preventative maintenance tasks such as oiling and greasing cables, chains, and pulleys; cleaning and painting lock fixtures or other appurtenances; cleaning, sharpening and repairing tools and equipment. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 E. I have the ability to perform tasks including various maintenance or repair tasks utilizing mechanical or electrical equipment. I have operated simple electrical or mechanical equipment such as lawn mower, hedge clippers, floor buffer, jackhammer, power threader, power wrench. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 F. I have the ability to perform simple tasks including operating manual equipment. I have received training on handling basic hand tools.
 G. I do not possess the abilities described above.
2. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected