Position Title
MATE TUG CLASS I
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDB-25-12820538-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 21, 2025 to Wednesday, November 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in a MATE, TUG, CLASS I position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform MATE, TUG, CLASS I XH-5782-11 duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex operation, navigation of vessels, maneuvering in abnormally heavy traffic including avoiding moving and moored vessels, combating inclement weather, conducting deck machinery maintenance, use of pilothouse controls, anchoring and fastening of lines. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of vessel navigation; I am skilled in conducting maintenance to deck machinery to maintain vessel operations. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform operations of a vessel. I can perform common maintenance to deck machinery. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform common operation and maintenance of a vessel.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform MATE, TUG, CLASS I XH-5782-09 duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex operations of the navigation of a vessel, conducting repairs and maintenance of the craft. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of operating a vessel. I am skilled in preforming maintenance to maintain vessel operations. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common operations of a vessel. I can perform minor maintenance and repairs. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple operations and maintenance of a vessel.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform MATE, TUG, CLASS I XH-5782-07 duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to navigate a small boat, to include conducting complex repairs and maintenance to ensure the crafts operations. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to operate a small boat; I am skilled in preforming common maintenance and repairs. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common operations of a small boat. I can perform minor maintenance and repairs. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform minor repairs and maintenance of a vessel and have common knowledge of the operations of the vessel.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙