Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist (NG)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-CK-12814620-CORE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Thursday, October 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) employee?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action. We recommend submitting your last promotion SF-50, current SF-50, or within-grade increase SF-50.  Award SF-50's do not include all the required information and will not be accepted.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Hyattsville, MD
 B. Denton, TX
 C. Winchester, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


3.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


4.
How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 USAJOBS
 FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 FEMA.gov Careers Website
 FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 College/University/Alumni Organization
 FEMA Employee Referral
 Other


5.
Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.


6.
Are you a current FEMA employee?
 I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 I'm not a current FEMA Employee


7.
Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


8.
Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)


9.
Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 No
 Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.


10.
Did you elect to voluntarily resign or retire through the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) or Workforce Transition Program (WTP)
 Yes
 No


11.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 Yes
 No, but I have an exemption
 I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 Not Applicable


2.
All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 Yes
 No


3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Grade 7: Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience.
 I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-5, as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I have a bachelor's degree in a field that would equip me to perform the work of the position, and I meet one of the following requirements for superior academic achievement at the undergraduate level: 1) Class standing - Graduated in the upper third of the class based on completed courses in the college, university or major subdivision; 2) Grade Point Average - 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0 scale as recorded on official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of curriculum; or 3) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society. A copy of your transcript is required to documented proof of your GPA, class standing, or election to honor society membership. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating
 I possess one full year of graduate level education. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.
 I possess a combination of specialized experience, as described in the vacancy announcement, and related graduate level education, that when combined, meet the qualification requirements for this position. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


2.
Grade 9: Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience.
 I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-7, as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.
 I possess a combination of specialized experience, as described in the vacancy announcement, and related graduate level education, beyond the first full year of graduate level study, that when combined, meet the qualification requirements for this position. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


3.
Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.


4.
Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙