Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Compensation-Benefits)
Agency
U.S. Marshals Service
Announcement Number
IMP-12820123-26-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 23, 2025 to Wednesday, October 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former Department of Justice federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? To be eligible you must:
Meet the definition of 'surplus' or 'displaced' employee, as defined in 330.602;
Have a duty station in the local commuting area of the vacancy;
Have a performance rating of at least Fully Successful or equivalent;
Be applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you're being separated; and
Be applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you're being separated.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following:
RIF separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; 
Copy of your latest performance rating; and
Copy of your most recent SF-50: Notification of Personnel Action showing your position, grade and step, tenure code, and duty location.
See the Career Transition Assistance site on USAJOBS for more information about CTAP. 

Based on the above, are you eligible and would you like to be considered for selection priority under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed as a Department of Justice civilian employee in the competitive service that holds a career or career-conditional position; and have you never held the full performance level of this position?

 -OR-
 
Are you currently employed as a Department of Justice civilian employee in the competitive service that holds a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level than the position being announced?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed as a Department of Justice civilian employee in the competitive service that holds a career or career-conditional position at the same grade level as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
 
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following best represents your most recent performance appraisal rating?
 I received a rating of record equivalent to at least "fully successful or higher".
 I do not meet any of the performance appraisal ratings as described above.


2.
If you selected, "I do not meet any of the performance appraisal ratings as described above", please provide an explanation. If you provided a response of A above, please type N/A.


3.
Which of the following best represents your awards history? (Awards include superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increases and other equivalent awards.)
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above within the past 4 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, more than 4 years ago for service, accomplishments or initiatives.
 I have not received any awards.


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
From the description below, please select the response that best describes the experience that you possess which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position. Your resume MUST show that you possess the necessary experience in order to be found qualified.


1.
Applicants must have the specialized experience in the amounts shown below to be considered for this position. From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes the highest level of experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience).
 I have at least one year of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to the grade GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which demonstrates experience in directing agency-wide employee relations programs to include the following: 1.) Leading or managing the full range of compensation, pay administration, and benefits services for an organization; 2.) Ensuring compliance with regulatory laws, policies and procedures as it relates to pay administration, compensation, and benefits; 3.) Providing advice and guidance to staff and management on various pay matters including, but not limited to setting pay, premium pay, maximum earnings limitations, and, retroactive pay; 4.) Applying complex HR Benefits principles, concepts, practices, methods and techniques for benefits and retirement programs, such as health and life insurance, dental and vision insurance, CSRS/FERS, flexible spending accounts, long term care insurance and the Thrift Saving Plan (TSP); and 5.) Researching and/or analyzing data from various sources to respond to inquiries relating to compensation, pay administration, and benefits.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙