Position Title
Supervisory Public Affairs Specialist
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12771475-PUB-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 to Friday, August 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current USCIS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a current USCIS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) employee who is in a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of our SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 5 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
3.

This job is being posted for individuals who reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis. All candidates must meet this requirement, with the exception of Refugee, Asylum and International Operations (RAIO) overseas employees approved for rotation OR unless on an approved exemption OR at an approved USCIS location. In these cases you can apply for any location.

Do you reside within the local commuting area* of the announced duty location on a permanent basis OR are a RAIO overseas employee approved for rotation OR on an approved exemption** OR at an approved USCIS location***?

*Local commuting area is defined as a distance that you can reasonably travel back and forth daily to the announced duty location from your permanent residence.

**An approved exemption is: military spouses, approved RA, or temporary long distance remote status (documentation required).

***An approved USCIS location is defined as pre authorized space designated for use by the program, office or directorate.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

The address listed on your USA Jobs profile or resume must show that you reside within the local commuting area of the announced duty location.
If on an approved exemption you must provide the most recent approval.
If at an approved USCIS location you must provide the original reporting instructions.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If your status changes, requiring you to report to a physical location you may be directed to report to one of the duty locations listed in the original job opportunity announcement without relocation expenses.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a current USCIS employee who opted to take part of the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) and are currently in an Administrative Leave category?
 A. Yes.
 B. No.
Assessment 1
1. GS-15 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response
3. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-15. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-15 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
4. Select the tasks you have performed related to establishing and maintaining productive working relationships with regional and national news media.
 A. Developed responses to information requests by explaining established procedures with regional and national news media.
 B. Independently communicated sensitive and high-level subject matter to regional and national news media.
 C. Collaborated with high-level officials within an organization, as well as local, and national news media to gather information on a full spectrum of issues.
 D. Provided information by explaining established procedures with regional and national news media.
 E. None of the above
5. Select the audiences for whom you have prepared customer feedback presentations (e.g., briefings).
 A. Colleagues
 B. Team leads/Program Managers
 C. First-line Supervisors
 D. Senior-level officials
 E. External partners
 F. None of the above
6. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience creating correspondence (e.g., customer notifications, response to inquiries)?
 A. I created correspondence following guidance (e.g., template, explicit directions from a superior).
 B. I created correspondence without guidance that was reviewed and approved before dissemination.
 C. I independently created correspondence that did not require higher-level review or approval.
 D. I trained others in proper creation of correspondence.
 E. I completed education and/or training related to creating correspondence, but do not have professional experience.
 F. I have no experience, training, or education creating correspondence.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. Do you have experience directing program and/or project development?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Which actions have you taken to implement strategic plans?
 A. Monitored progress against strategic goals.
 B. Participated in the implementation of a strategic goal with department-wide implications.
 C. Led a working group focused on implementation of an organization-wide strategic goal.
 D. Developed a course of action to implement a strategic goal (e.g., road map, project plan).
 E. Identified barriers to successful implementation of a strategic goal.
 F. Reported on the achievement of a strategic goal to executive leadership (e.g., formal briefings, progress reports).
 G. Revised a course of action to meet a strategic goal.
 H. None of the above.
9. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting analyses to develop goals and tactical plans that met strategic objectives?
 A. I have no experience, education, or training related to conducting analyses to develop goals and tactical plans.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to conducting analyses to develop goals and tactical plans, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I participated in analysis meetings to compare existing solutions and capacities against current business objectives.
 D. I developed plans to increase IT performance needs for a stakeholder within an organization based on my analyses.
 E. I developed plans to increase IT performance at an enterprise-wide level based on my analyses.
10. Select the Human Resources policies and procedures you have applied in your work.
 A. Code of Federal Regulations
 B. Executive Orders
 C. Agency policies and/or directives
 D. Bargaining Unit Agreement/Collective Bargaining Agreements
 E. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Regulation
 F. Merit System Protection Board decisions
 G. Delegated Examining Unit Handbook
 H. Settlement Agreements
 I. Privacy Act Comptroller General
 J. Title 5 United States Code
 K. Foreign Affairs Manual
 L. Freedom of Information Act
 M. Family Medical Leave Act
 N. Federal Labor Relations Authority Decisions
 O. Arbitration Decisions
 P. None of the above
11. Select the human resources functions you have performed independently.
 A. Created personnel actions
 B. Approved personnel actions
 C. Reviewed current staffing levels and predicted future needs
 D. Formulated budgets
 E. Attended job fairs to source candidates
 F. Reviewed budget to determine if cuts needed to be made
 G. Reviewed candidate applications and made selection recommendations
 H. Interviewed potential candidates and made selection recommendations
 I. Determined the number of personnel needed to cover current workload
 J. Reviewed announcement drafts
 K. None of the above
12. Select the human resources regulations or guidelines that you have applied to resolve workplace disputes.
 A. Title 5 U.S.C. Chapter 71: Labor Management Relations
 B. Title 5 U.S.C. Chapter 75: Adverse Actions
 C. Title 5 U.S.C. Chapter 43: Performance Appraisal
 D. Office of Personnel Management guidelines
 E. Federal case law (e.g., Merit System Protection Board (MSPB), Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), or Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) rulings)
 F. None of the above
13. I have independently planned projects that resulted in organizational-wide improvements.
 A. True
 B. False
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
14. Have you served as an organization's primary spokesperson?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. Have you collaborated with government partners on communication strategies to synchronize messaging and release of information?
 A. Yes
 B. No
16. Choose the option that best describes your experience producing succinct and clear written information for program members, senior officials, and organizational leadership.
 A. I have applied numerous techniques to provide succinct and clear information regarding issues related to national security.
 B. I have directed teams or groups to provide succinct and clear information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 C. I have performed nuanced research to develop way to proffer information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 D. I have spearheaded mission specific teams in identifying definitive information to be presented to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
17. Which statement best describes your role in aligning work with organizational goals and objectives?
 A. I have worked within a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 B. I have led a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 C. I have supervised a team to achieve organizational goals and objectives.
 D. None of the above
18. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience reporting organizational performance measures?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training related to reporting measures of organizational performance.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to reporting measures of organizational performance, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I compiled organizational performance data for analysis and subsequent reporting.
 D. I audited organizational performance-related reports to determine deficiencies/compliance with standards.
 E. I analyzed organizational performance-related reports to make recommendations to enhance operational effectiveness.
19. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
20. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected