Position Title
Wildland Firefighter
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
TS-26-12807572-CM-FDHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, October 6, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan: 

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

Are you a current or former federal employee considered displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.   

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency posting this job announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
U.S. Citizens

Are you a U.S. citizen or national?


 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Soldotna, AK
 B. Jamul, CA
 C. Tulelake, CA
 D. Alamosa, CO
 E. Commerce City, CO
 F. Immokalee, FL
 G. Saint Marks, FL
 H. Titusville, FL
 I. Carterville, IL
 J. Madison, IN
 K. Titonka, IA
 L. Wapello, IA
 M. Hartford, KS
 N. Stafford, KS
 O. Wells, ME
 P. Seney, MI
 Q. Carver, MN
 R. Detroit Lakes, MN
 S. Erskine, MN
 T. Fergus Falls, MN
 U. Litchfield, MN
 V. Morris, MN
 W. Zimmerman, MN
 X. Gautier, MS
 Y. Forest City, MO
 Z. Fort Peck, MT
 AA. Roy, MT
 AB. Funk, NE
 AC. Valentine, NE
 AD. Las Vegas, NV
 AE. Basking Ridge, NJ
 AF. Berthold, ND
 AG. Coleharbor, ND
 AH. Devils Lake, ND
 AI. Pingree, ND
 AJ. Cache, OK
 AK. Vian, OK
 AL. Columbia, SD
 AM. Madison, SD
 AN. Mayville, WI
 AO. Necedah, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4
5


3.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Minimum Qualifications


For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


1.
Minimum Qualification for GW-0456-03 (Must meet A, B, or C to qualify)

 I have 6 full months of general experience which consisted of: (1) Work that demonstrates my ability to perform the work of the position (fire prevention, suppression, monitoring), or (2) Experience that provided a familiarity with the subject matter (fire prevention, suppression, monitoring).
 I have successfully completed 1 year of study above high school in an accredited college or university that included at least 6 semester hours in a combination of courses such as range management or conservation, agriculture, forestry, wildlife management, engineering, biology, mathematics, or other natural or physical sciences.
 I have an appropriate combination of education and experience that equals 100%.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above in "A", "B", or "C".


2.
Minimum Qualifications for GW-0456-04 (Must meet A, B, or C to qualify)

 I have 6 months general experience and 6 months specialized experience. Six full months of general experience which consisted of: farming or ranching work that involved application of cultural, soil and water conservation practices, including safety and use of equipment, and that provided a basic understanding of land use; or forest or range fire control, prevention, or suppression work; AND six full months of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GW-3 level in the Federal Service. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: forestry aid or technician work; range, or soil conservation technician work that involved application of cultural, resource conservation, or land management practices; farming or ranching work that provided a basic understanding of land use and involved the application of cultural and soil and water conservation practices; forest or range fire control, prevention, or suppression work.
 I have successfully completed two years or more of education above high school (60 semester hour or 90 quarter hours) that included at least twelve semester hours in any combination of courses such as forestry, agriculture, crop or plant science, range management or conservation, wildlife management, watershed management, soil science, natural resources (except marine fisheries and oceanography), outdoor recreation management, civil or forest engineering, or wildland fire science.
 I have a combination of education and experience that when combined meet 100% of the qualification requirements.
 I do not have the education or experience described above in "A","B" or "C".


3.
Minimum Qualifications for GW-0456-05 (Must meet A, B, or C to qualify)

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GW-4 level in the Federal Service demonstrated by performing range or forest fire control, prevention, or suppression work. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include leading firefighting crews in prescribed burning and wildfire suppression field operations and performing wildland fire suppression, preparedness, prevention, monitoring, hazardous fuels reduction and prescribed fire as wildland firefighter crewmember
 I have successful completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree (a) with major study in forestry, range management, agriculture, or a subject-matter field directly related to the position, or (b) that included at least 24 semester hours in any combination of courses such as courses such as forestry, agriculture, crop or plant science, range management or conservation, wildlife management, watershed management, soil science, natural resources (except marine fisheries and oceanography), outdoor recreation management, civil or forest engineering, or wildland fire science. No more than 6 semester hours in mathematics is creditable.
 I have a combination of education and experience that when combined meet 100% of the qualification requirements.
 I do not have the education or experience described above in "A","B" or "C".


Driver's License


4.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to hold and maintain a valid state driver's license throughout their employment. If selected, prior to entering on duty you will need to provide a copy of your valid driver's license before your appointment. Do you currently have a valid state driver's license?

 Yes
 No


Certification


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙