Position Title
AUDIO VISUAL PRODUCTION SPECIALIST
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12808029-ASA Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Monday, October 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.


1.
Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 Yes
 No


3.
Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


2.
There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent).
 No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-11 level.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.


3.
If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.


4.
If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.


5.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.


1.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-12 grade level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Preparing scripts, creating electronic graphics to enhance presentations, editing videos for roll in and review and evaluating and editing finished products; Directing video productions in the sector to include lighting and other aspects of production design, conceiving visuals, selecting music and sound effects, and selecting and directing cameras and movement during filming, editing videos, etc.; Maintaining and upgrading audiovisual equipment and related software; Creating and maintaining an existing database of video imagery used for distribution as secondary footage that visually supports the primary footage in the video project (B-Roll) to media outlets.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.


2.
Indicate the extent of your experience in analyzing operational problems, identifying significant factors, and developing solutions.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have resolved routine problems independently.
 I have worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences.
 I have facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet objectives.
 I have prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identified policy and/or process issues and offered options for resolution.


3.
Indicate the extent of your experience in researching, interpreting, and applying regulatory guidance from a variety of sources.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have had limited experience in research and interpretation through reading correspondence/regulations and applying this knowledge to routine tasks.
 I have independently researched and interpreted information gathered from correspondence/regulations and applied this knowledge to routine tasks.
 I have independently researched and interpreted information gathered from a variety of sources, evaluated the information, and made specific recommendations based on my findings.


4.
Indicate the extent to which you have communicated orally with various levels of employees in order to obtain and provide information.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have communicated with others in order to obtain or verify information or to provide routine information.
 I have communicated with supervisors, managers, or office personnel to notify them of decisions, problems, or further actions needed, or to explain the organization's programs or services.
 I have given short oral presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings to convey information on program activities or to describe the impact of new organizational policies on operational responsibilities.
 I have represented my organization, group, or class in meetings and dealings with other groups or organizations for the purpose of proposing and gaining acceptance of ideas and explaining or coordinating views regarding complex, technical, or specialized subject matter.


5.
Indicate the extent of your experience in preparing written work documents.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have contributed small sections (e.g., parts of a report) for incorporation into larger documents.
 I have contributed larger sections for incorporation into a larger document.
 I have reviewed the work of others for appropriate content and format.
 I have reviewed the work of others and I have been responsible for entire, final work documents.


6.
Indicate the extent of your experience in using standard computer software applications (for example, word processing, spreadsheets, databases) typically found in an office environment.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have a basic knowledge of word processing applications.
 I have a working knowledge of word processing applications and some limited experience using spreadsheets.
 I regularly use word processing and spreadsheet software in my work, but I do not regularly use database software.
 I regularly use word processing, spreadsheet, and database software in my work.


7.
Indicate the extent of your experience working on a team or as a team leader.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have completed course work or formal training on team leadership or teamwork, but I have not applied this knowledge in my job.
 I have had experience working on a team and handling problems involving work where there were established guidelines.
 I have had experience working on a team that independently handled problems involving work where there are no existing guidelines.
 I have had experience as a team leader responsible for monitoring performance and implementation to meet goals and objectives related to the organization's mission.


8.
Indicate the extent of your experience establishing and maintaining effective working relationships outside of the organization.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have provided routine information, resolved simple problems, questions, or complaints, and directed non-routine problems, questions, or complaints to the appropriate person/office.
 I have maintained working relationships with individuals and groups outside my organization.
 I have developed and maintained work relationships with a wide range of individuals and groups outside of my organization.


9.
Indicate the extent of your experience in employing photo and video editing software for the development of digital media content.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have completed course work or formal training on different styles of videography/cinematography, but I have not applied this knowledge in my job.
 I have created small pieces of videography/cinematography for incorporation into a larger production/project.
 I have reviewed the videography/cinematography work of others for appropriate content and format.
 I have reviewed the videography/cinematography work of others and I have been responsible for final productions/projects.


10.
Indicate the extent of your experience in using high-quality photo and video cameras.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have completed course work or formal training on videography/cinematography, but I have not applied this knowledge in my job.
 I have assisted in the production of video in the field.
 I have used the direction of a senior producer to execute a field production.
 I have coordinated and been the lead producer on field productions.


11.
Indicate the extent of your experience developing and implementing policies and procedures related to the administration of an audiovisual system.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have completed course work or formal training on directing, but I have not applied this knowledge in my job.
 I have directed smaller pieces of videography/cinematography in the studio for incorporation into a larger production/project.
 I have directed the videography/cinematography work of others in the studio and I have been responsible for large segments of final productions/projects.
 I have directed videography/cinematography work in the studio and I have been responsible for entire, large-scale, final productions/projects.


12.
Indicate the extent of your experience resolving problems related to the functioning of audiovisual systems.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have completed course work or formal training in this area, but I have not applied this knowledge in my job.
 I have had experience managing a studio for limited periods (for example, a shift) where there were established guidelines.
 I have had experience managing a studio and independently handling problems involving work where there were no existing guidelines.
 I have had experience managing a studio with responsibility for meeting the goals and objectives related to the studio's mission.


13.
Indicate the extent of your experience configuring and operating broadcast equipment.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have a basic knowledge of how to configure and operate broadcast equipment.
 I have a working knowledge of how to configure and operate broadcast equipment, but have not performed these sorts of tasks extensively in past work.
 The configuration and operation of broadcast equipment constitutes about 50% of my work.
 I regularly configure and operate broadcast equipment in my work.


14.
Indicate the extent of your experience drafting and refining scripts for use in various productions.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have contributed small sections (e.g., parts of a script) for incorporation into larger documents.
 I have contributed larger sections of scripts for incorporation into a larger document.
 I have reviewed the script work of others for appropriate content and format.
 I have reviewed the script work of others and I have been responsible for entire, final scripts.


15.
Indicate the extent of your experience cataloging and maintaining media libraries.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have been responsible for media charged to my personal custody.
 I have assisted in the management of a media library.
 I have functioned as the manager for a media library.


16.
Indicate the extent of your knowledge or application of non-linear digital editing systems.

 I have no knowledge of these concepts, principles, regulations, and policies.
 I have a basic knowledge of non-linear digital editing systems.
 I have a working knowledge of non-linear digital editing systems, but I have not used non-linear digital editing systems extensively in past work.
 The use of non-linear digital editing systems constitutes about 50% of my work.
 I regularly use non-linear digital editing systems in my work.


17.
Indicate the extent of your experience in developing administrative procedures and guidelines (for example, standard operating procedures (SOPs), directives, or employee handbooks).

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have assisted with the evaluation of existing administrative procedures and guidelines.
 I have had some experience revising existing administrative procedures and guidelines.
 I have completed updates and new components of administrative procedures and guidelines.
 I have developed entire editions of administrative procedures and guidelines.


18.
Indicate the extent of your experience in providing employee training.

 I have no experience or training performing this work.
 I have assisted training staff in coordinating various training programs and initiatives.
 I have provided co-workers with on-the-job training.
 I have contributed to the development of formal training content.
 I have delivered training based on content I have developed.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙