Position Title
Writer-Editor
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OC-IMP-12797547-DEW Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 to Tuesday, September 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
2. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Conveying excellence in both verbal and written communication; Handling multiple deliverables at once; Collaborating successfully with both individuals and teams; Adapting to the needs and interests of a wide variety of audiences AND Utilizing a mastery of grammar, style, and formatting for standard usage.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
3. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
5. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
6. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
7. This vacancy has a local commuting area requirement, as defined below:
The area surrounding the duty station by which people reasonably travel back and forth from home to work; Or
The employee's permanent duty station is located within the reasonable travel area surrounding the duty station of this vacancy; Or if applicable
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for less than 1 year) to another duty location, the permanent duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for more than 1 year) to another duty location, the detailed or temporary duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
Do you meet the local commuting area requirement?
 A. A. Yes, I meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
 B. B. No, I do not meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
8. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following statements best describes your experience?

 A. I have at least one year of experience as a Writer-Editor, GS-1082-13 (or higher grade level), with the federal government.
 B. I have at least one year of specialized experience writing and editing senior executive-level correspondence, presentations, and speeches; reviewing, evaluating, and developing documents for editorial quality, consistency, and compliance with established style, format and content; managing an organizational website; and using presentation, word processing, and publishing software.
 C. I do not possess the experience described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience writing and editing Senior-level written correspondence (e.g., Congressional correspondence) and presentations for a variety of audiences (e.g., internal organization, external agencies, general public).

 A. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written and edited portions of Senior-level written correspondence and presentations primarily for internal usage.
 C. I have independently written and edited Senior-level written correspondence and presentations for a variety of audiences.
 D. I have extensive experience writing and editing Senior-level written correspondence for a variety of audiences. I have reviewed this type of correspondence written by lower-level employees and provided guidance and feedback on necessary revisions to the content and tone.
3. Indicate the extent of your experience in writing and editing documents in a variety of styles (e.g., technical, informative, persuasive, marketing, executive summaries, talking points)

 A. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have written and edited portions of documents in a variety of styles.
 C. I have written and edited documents in a variety of styles. My work was subject to only minimal revisions by a supervisor or more senior individual.
 D. I have extensive experience in writing and editing documents in a variety of styles. I have been responsible for reviewing all written documents produced by my work unit to ensure accuracy, consistency, and compliance with established standards.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience making rapid revisions to written content under time pressure

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made minor revisions to written content with a relatively short deadline. My revisions were accurate, and the document was accepted without further changes.
 C. I have made major revisions to written content, rearranging entire paragraphs or making major changes to style/tone under significant time pressure. My work substantially improved the quality of the content.
 D. I have re-written entire sections of written content to accommodate sudden major changes in the desired message, style, tone, or audience with an immediate turnaround time (e.g., 1-2 hours). I am known as the "go-to" person when this type of work is required.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience establishing and maintaining electronic filing systems for documents and related information.

 A. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have used existing electronic filing systems for documents and related information.
 C. I have established and maintained a new electronic filing system for documents and related information.
 D. I have extensive experience establishing and maintaining new electronic filing systems for documents and related information. I am regularly asked to provide assistance, training, or technical guidance on the use of these systems.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience ensuring written materials adhere to established standards (e.g., grammar, metrics, category, and significance).

 A. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have ensured that my own written materials adhered to established standards.
 C. I have provided reviews to ensure the written materials of my peers adhered to established standards.
 D. I have led a team and been responsible for reviewing all written materials produced by team members and ensuring they adhered to established standards.
 E. I have reviewed all written materials produced by my work unit. I have been responsible for ensuring the materials adhered to established standards.
7. Indicate the extent of experience gathering and analyzing information from multiple sources on a wide variety of topics for use in correspondence documents that were complex or sensitive in nature.

 A. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have experience gathering information from multiple sources. I have provided this information to a supervisor or more senior individual for use in a variety of documents.
 C. I have gathered and analyzed information from multiple sources on a wide variety of topics. I have used the results of my analysis in a variety of documents that were complex or sensitive in nature.
8. Indicate the extent of experience using standard word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word) to draft, review, and revise correspondence, reports, or other documents.

 A. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have experience using the basic features of word processing software to write and revise documents.
 C. I have experience using more advanced features of word processing software (e.g., Table of Contents, mail merge) in the course of my daily job duties.
 D. I am considered an expert in using features such as Visual Basic and Macros in word processing software. I have trained others on the use of this software.
9. Indicate the extent of experience using standard presentation software (e.g., Microsoft PowerPoint) to draft presentations or other documents.

 A. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have some experience using the basic functionalities of presentation software to create text content.
 C. I have experience developing presentations that consisted of text, pictures, and various graphs and charts.
 D. I have extensive experience using the advanced features of presentation software to incorporate functionalities such as animation, transitions, and adding apps to the presentations.
10. Indicate the extent of experience using spreadsheet software (e.g., Microsoft Excel) to enter data, track information, and/or generate reports.

 A. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have been responsible for inputting qualitative and quantitative data into previously established spreadsheets.
 C. I have created spreadsheets and established new tracking systems, and have inputted qualitative and quantitative data into the spreadsheets.
 D. I have trained others on how to input qualitative and quantitative data into spreadsheets, and have reviewed their work for accuracy.
11. Indicate the extent of experience applying knowledge of web-based platforms (e.g., Microsoft SharePoint) to provide organizational or program information.

 A. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have some experience using web-based platforms to provide organizational or program information.
 C. I have used web-based platforms (including Microsoft SharePoint) to gather and provide organizational or program information.
 D. I have extensive experience using web-based platforms (including Microsoft SharePoint) to gather, compile, and provide organizational and program information. I have trained others in how to use these platforms to complete normal job duties.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience using Adobe Professional.

 A. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have some experience using the basic functionalities of Adobe Professional to read and complete documents.
 C. I have experience using more advanced functionalities of Adobe Professional to edit content, manipulate pages, and edit page design.
 D. I have extensive experience using the advanced functionalities of Adobe Professional, and frequently train others in the use of the program.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected