Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (EKG)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12812996-26-KM Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 10, 2025 to Friday, October 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Instrument Technician ((Electrocardiograph Technician (EKG)), position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. For each question below, choose the response that best describes your qualifications.


Basic Requirements


1.
English Language Proficiency Requirement: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in written and spoken English to meet the basic requirement of this position.

Are you proficient in the spoken and written English Language?

 Yes
 No


Grade Level Requirements - Grade Level Determination

Electrocardiograph Technicians (EKG) - operates instruments used to record electrocardiograms, exercise tolerance tests, 24-48 heart monitoring and scanning, and pacemaker evaluations.  Certification is offered by Cardiovascular Credentialing International (CCI) as a Certified Cardiographic Technician (CCT)

Please review the below questions and provide the most appropriate response to determine if grade-specific requirements have been met.  Please ensure that your resume/CV adequately demonstrates the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities required for each grade level for consideration.


2.
Specialized experience for the GS-7 Medical Instrument Technician:

Applicants applying under this announcement must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-6 level, Medical Instrument Technician (EKG). Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to receive and interpret physician's requests for diagnostic procedures and/or treatments; explain the procedure to the patient to secure the patient's confidence and cooperation; document the patient's record; independently perform standardized testing monitoring the patient for adverse reactions; and operate, calibrate, and clean and/or sterilize commonly used equipment. Assignments at this level require knowledge of standard medical terminology as well as common diseases and their specific affects.

Do you possess the experience as described above? NOTE: Your resume must provide enough details to support your response to this question.
 Yes, I possess the specialized experience as stated above.
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience as stated above


3.
For consideration at the GS-7 Grade-Level:

In addition to required experience above, candidates must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of typical patient reactions and signs of distress, including the ability to recognize, report, and treat potentially lethal arrhythmias
Knowledge of common equipment settings and standardized procedures plus knowledge of common errors and corrective measures
Ability to modify procedures/positions to obtain the correct results with patients with complicating conditions such as amputations, Parkinson's disease, structural defects, and scar tissue
Ability to act as a mentor or preceptor to lower-graded technicians
Ability to conduct in-service training on the EKG equipment and related instrumentation

Do you possess the above KSAs?
 Yes, my resume clearly reflects and/or demonstrates the KSAs required for consideration at the GS-7 Grade-Level
 No, I do not possess the KSAs above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙