Position Title
Government Information Specialist - Detail/Temporary promotion NTE 1 year
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12815711-26-CAH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 15, 2025 to Wednesday, October 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
Have you obtained supervisory approval to apply for this detail? NOTE: Requires supporting documentation of approval to be uploaded with your application. Failure to provide supporting documentation will result in your application not being considered.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Time-in-Grade Restriction (Applies to Temporary Promotion) - Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements within 30 days of the closing date of the posting. If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade, this question does not apply to you. For this vacancy, applicants must have held GS-9 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-11 grade level and GS-11 or higher to be eligible for the GS-12 level temporary promotion.


1.
Time in Grade requirements GS-11 Temporary Promotion: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, a non-GS grade level or are a Wage Grade employee, this question does not apply to you. For a GS-11, applicants must have held GS-9 for at least 1 year within 30 days of the closing date of this announcement or higher to be eligible for the GS-11 grade level. Please choose one of the following.
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-9 grade level or I hold or have previously held a non-GS position equivalent to the GS-9 or I am currently a GS-11 or higher. (You must submit an SF-50 showing you meet this requirement)
 This restriction does not apply to me, I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks, or I am Wage Grade employee or eligible for a non-competitive appointment like VRA or Schedule A.
 This restriction does not apply to me, I am only applying for the Detail and not Temporary Promotion.
 Time in grade requirements apply to me but I do NOT meet the requirements.


2.
Time in Grade requirements GS-12 for Temporary Promotion: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, a non-GS grade level or are a Wage Grade employee, this question does not apply to you. For a GS-12, applicants must have held GS-11 for at least 1 year within 30 days of the closing date of this announcement or higher to be eligible for the GS-12 grade level. Please choose one of the following.
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or I hold or have previously held a non-GS position equivalent to the GS-11 or I am currently a GS-12 or higher. (You must submit an SF-50 showing you meet this requirement)
 This restriction does not apply to me, I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks, or I am Wage Grade employee or eligible for a non-competitive appointment like VRA or Schedule A.
 This restriction does not apply to me, I am only applying for the Detail and not Temporary Promotion.
 Time in grade requirements apply to me but I do NOT meet the requirements.


3.
For GS-11: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position at the GS-11 level.
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 level in the Federal service that equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of this Government Information Specialist position. Specialized experience includes: safeguarding of government information while supporting accountability and transparency initiatives; conducting strategic risk analysis pertaining to privacy/FOIA programs; coordinating training; managing outreach programs; implementing unique policies and procedures to manage agency information; providing services and assistance to the general public and staff members; and researching, interpreting and applying laws, regulations, policies and guidance for access and disclosure of agency records and information. NOTE: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, GS level (if a federal position), duties, month & year starting and ending dates AND hours worked per week.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and education beyond a master's degree to meet total experience requirements for the GS-11 level. To determine if you meet combination requirements, the total percentages of your qualifying experience and percentage of education required for the grade level must equal at least 100 percent. For example, an applicant has 9 months of specialized experience equivalent to GS-9 and 2 1/2 years of creditable graduate level education. The applicant meets 75 percent of the required experience and 50 percent of the required education, i.e., the applicant has 1/2 year of graduate study beyond that required for GS-9. Therefore, the applicant exceeds the total requirement and is qualified for the position. (The applicant's first 2 years of graduate study are not qualifying for GS-11.) (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED).
 I do not possess the required level of experience and/or education and am not qualified for at the GS-11 level.


4.
For GS-12: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position at the GS-11 level.
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service that equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of this Government Information Specialist position. Specialized experience includes: independently working as a privacy/FOIA officer with little to no supervision; formulating policy; ensuring compliance with federal and state laws; conducting thorough research of implementing regulations, policies and procedures to manage agency/organization information; and providing assistance and services to the general public, staff members and communicate information to the Executive Leadership, facility staff and outside stakeholders.
 I do not possess the required level of experience and am not qualified for at the GS-12 level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙