Position Title
Health Technician (Audiology)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12765023-25-CTM Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
2. Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Technician (Audiology) position with the Carl Vinson Veteran Affair Medical Center, Dublin, GA. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Health Technician (Audiology). The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-07. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. Please read the announcement in its entirety and review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Your resume must provide specific examples or documentation of your experience as proof to support your answers. Your failure to adequately document your experience, education, or certification on your resume may result in you being found not qualified for this position. No assumptions are made regarding your qualifications.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: All applicants for the Health Technician (Audiology) must meet the Basic Requirements below.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Citizenship. Be a citizen of the United States (U.S.). Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a).

Are you a Citizen of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. English Language Proficiency: Health Technician Audiologist must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j.

Do you meet this requirement (proficient in both spoken and written English)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Experience and Education Basic Requirement: The following pertains to your ability to meet the basic experience and/or education for this position.

(1) Experience. Six months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled.

OR
(2) Education. Successful completion of two academic years above high school leading to an associate degree or a bachelor's degree with at least 12 semester hours in courses related to the position-(Official Transcript required)

OR

(3) Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying for entry level for which both education and experience are acceptable-(Official Transcript required). An example of a combination of experience/education is three months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled and one year above high school with a minimum of 6 semester hours related to the health care industry.
 A. Yes
 B. No
GRADE REQUIREMENTS:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. GS-7 Health Technician (Audiology): In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must meet the requirements below:

Experience. Completion of one year of progressive experience and/or experience equivalent to the next lower grade level directly related to the position being filled.

AND

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a) Ability to mentor and train new HTASLPs.
(b) Ability to prepare patients for advanced testing procedures performed by the audiologist, such as evoked potentials.
(c) Ability to identify the diagnosis and dysphagia risk factors in the medical record to assist the SLP.
(d) Ability to identify the components of dysphagia monitoring.
(e) Knowledge of linguistic parameters such as semantic, syntactic and phonological categories, to assist in creating therapeutic stimuli and home programs.
(f) Ability to develop and implement the technician role for a program in a focused area of audiology and/or speech-language pathology.

Do you meet the requirement stated above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following for each job listed:
1) Job Title and Grade Level/Salary (for all Federal positions you have held). In order to show that you meet time-in-grade, you must document grades you have held and how long you have held them.
2) Duties (you must include enough detailed information to support your work experience).
3) Month and year start/end dates (e.g. May 2007 to May 2008).
4) Full-time or Part-time status (include hours worked per week for each job listed).
5) Full Name and Address of Employer

Resume Must Support Response. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

RECOMMENDATION: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5. C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

Do you certify that, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected