Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12788120-26-TM Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 10, 2025 to Wednesday, September 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Clinical Laboratory Scientist position with the Ralph H. Johnson VA Health Care System. Please answer all the following questions below and ensure that your resume corresponds with your answers based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403 (f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education. A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.

NOTE: The Supervisory CLS (Laboratory Director), GS-15, requires unique education requirements.

Do you meet this education requirement? NOTE: An unofficial transcript must be provided.
 Yes
 No


3.
Certification. Candidates must meet one of the certification options below.

Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT,

OR,

Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT,

OR,

Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.

NOTE: Categorical and specialist certifications are not acceptable for CLS Generalist positions or lab sections unrelated to the categorical or specialist certification held. Categorical or specialist certifications are acceptable for higher-graded positions within the relevant lab section or one of the non-section specific assignments (including, Ancillary Testing Coordinator, Education Coordinator, Laboratory Information Manager, Quality Manager, Laboratory Manager, Regional Technical Specialist, National Quality and Compliance Agent, Regional Program Manager, Regional Director, Laboratory Director, or National Quality and Compliance Officer).

Do you possess a certification as a MT, MLS, or CLS given by the ASCP-BOC, ASCP-BOR or AMT?
 Yes
 No


4.
Grade Determinations. In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for placement at grade levels specified.

Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-07. 

Experience. None beyond the basic requirements. 

Do you meet all of the requirements as listed above?
 Yes
 No


5.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-09. 

Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.

OR

Education. Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing

Do you meet all of the requirements as listed above?
 Yes
 No


6.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-11.

Experience or Education Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

OR

Education. Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education

Do you meet all of the requirements as listed above?
 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


Transcript Reminder: This position has formal education requirement. You MUST SUBMIT a copy of your transcripts with your application. Unofficial is sufficient.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙