Position Title
Supervisory Park Ranger (P)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
MW-1543-ISRO-25-12772748-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 to Monday, August 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. 1. Are you the spouse of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty?

-OR-

2. Are you a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty?

-OR-

3. Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. 

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit documentation verifying active duty status; and documentation verifying marriage to the member of the armed forces (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage).

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:

Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career- conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced. 

To verify your eligibility as a current National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a former member of the Public Lands Corps (PLC) who has served the time required for completing a PLC project carried out on Federal land within the preceding 2 years (an individuals eligibility for NCE under this authority shall not exceed 2 years after completion of his/her last PLC project), and:

• Served as a qualified youth on an appropriate conservation project completing a minimum of 640 hours of satisfactory service that included at least 120 hours through the PLC (individuals must provide a copy of the "Certificate of Eligibility for NCE Hiring Based on PLC Service" and the complete PLC Participant Work Hours Verification Form with your application package in order to be considered under this hiring authority), and

• Meet OPM qualification standards and any other qualification requirement(s) stated in this vacancy announcement for the position in which you are applying.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation for the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA) eligibility, which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations, for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.
For more information, review Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA).
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced.
 
To verify your eligibility as a National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?
 
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.
2. My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a formal Performance Improvement Plan (PIP).
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. Not Applicable
3. As part of the official duties of this position, the incumbent is required to operate a Government vehicle. As such, applicants are required to have a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.

Please note: you will be required to submit a Motor Vehicle Operator's License and Driving Record. You must also submit (within a State sealed envelope or submitted directly by the State authorities), and at your own expense, all certified driving records from all States that disclose all valid driver's licenses, whether current or past, possessed by you.

Please chose the best response option regarding your license status.
 A. Yes, I have a valid state Drivers License.
 B. No, I do not have a valid Drivers License but obtain one prior to the closing date.
 C. No, I will not be able to obtain a valid Drivers License by the closing date.
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Park Ranger, GS-11, position. Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated to determine your qualifications for this position. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. You must select only ONE response for each item. If you change a response, be certain to erase (unclick) the incorrect response before you submit the application. Once you have submitted your application, items with more than one response or items that are left blank will not receive credit
1. From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your specialized experience and/or education meet the requirements for the Supervisory Park Ranger, GS-11 position.
 A. I have one (1) year specialized experience comparable to the GS-9 Federal level which prepared me to perform as a Park Ranger. Qualifying experience includes three of the four following: (1) Exercising law enforcement, illegal immigrant smuggling, and anti-poaching, (2) directing emergency medical services, criminal and tort claim investigations, and fire and emergency management; (3) Experience in maintaining a detention facility; by ensuring care of those held are in compliance with federal, state and local regulations; and (4) performing surveillance operations of significantly varying complexities
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archaeology, anthropology, park and recreation management; law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, or sociology.
 C. I have successfully completed three (3) full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education with studies in the following: natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archaeology, anthropology, park and recreation management; law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, or sociology.
 D. I have a combination of A and B or C above. To qualify for this combination, you must convert each portion of education and experience into a percentage. When added together, those percentages must equal 100 percent to qualify under the combination criteria.
 E. My experience and/or education are not listed in any of the above statements.
Required to carry firearm and maintain firearm proficiency,
2. Requirement to Carry Firearm and to maintain firearm proficiency.
 A. Yes, I am willing to carry a firearm as part of the duties and to maintain firearm proficiency.
 B. No, I am not will to carry a firearm and not willing to maintain firearm proficiency.
Law Enforcement Commission
3. In addition to the minimum qualifications described above, selectees must possess or be able to obtain a National Park Service, Type I, Law Enforcement Commission or equivalent by entrance on duty date. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for this position. You MUST submit documentation of how you meet this requirement, as indicated below, to be considered qualified for this position.
 A. I currently hold, or have previously held, a National Park Service full (Type I) law enforcement commission within the past three years.
 B. I have successfully completed one of the following courses: Land Management Police Training (LMPT) and its predecessors (LMTP, 11LM, and 9PT), National Park Ranger Integrated (NPRI), U.S. Park Police Integrated (USPPI), National Resource Police Training Program (NRPT), BIA - Basic Police Officer Training Program (BIA-BPOTP), Uniformed Police Training Program (UPTP) and its predecessor (Mixed Basic Training Program) to include a minimum of 3 years of federal law enforcement experience in a position of investigation, apprehension and detention.
 C. I do not have a law enforcement type I commission and will not be able to obtain one prior to closing date.
Age Requirement - This position is covered by the law enforcement officer retirement provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8336 (c) and 5 U.S.C. 8412 (d). Applicants for this primary law enforcement position must not have reached their 37th birthday upon appointment to this position unless there is sufficient prior Federal service in the covered primary law enforcement or firefighter position to permit retirement on or before the mandatory retirement age for this type of position. An exception is allowed if you are a qualified veteran's preference eligible.
4. This is a COVERED primary law enforcement position under the special retirement provisions of 5 U.S. C. 8336(c) (CSRS) and 8412(d) (FERS). Applicants for this position must be at least 21 years of age AND have not reached their 37th birthday prior to the closing date of this announcement. NOTE: Maximum entry age for Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act applicants is under 40 years. Please select the response below to indicate whether you meet this requirement.NOTE: Covered positions are those positions that have been determined to meet the definition of firefighter or law enforcement officer by OPM or the designated agency official in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) and 8412(d). You must provide documentation in your application that shows the beginning and ending dates, and work schedule for covered Federal service claimed.
 A. I am at least 21 years of age and will not have reached my 37th birthday prior to the closing date of this announcement.
 B. I am a current or former Federal employee who is over 36 years of age; however, I have prior covered and creditable service in a fire fighter or law enforcement covered (6c) position, that when subtracted from my chronological age, puts my MEA below 37.
 C. I am a veteran who is eligible for veteran preference (preference eligible) and I am eligible for a waiver of maximum entry age for this position because I am otherwise qualified and meet medical and fitness requirements. If you are claiming veteran preference, you must submit proof of your veteran preference. Please be advised that if you do not submit this required documentation of your service, you will not be eligible for consideration of this limited waiver of maximum entry age.
 D. I am applying under Land Management Workforce Flexibility (LMWFA), under the age of 40 and eligible for a waiver of maximum entry age for this position because I am otherwise qualified and meet medical and fitness requirements. If you are applying under LWMFA, you must submit proof of your eligibility. Please be advised that if you do not submit this required documentation, you will not be eligible for consideration of this limited waiver of maximum entry age.
 E. I do not meet the requirements described above.
Verification Statement
5. As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

Failure to agree to this statement will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected