Position Title
Program Manager
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-SMP-12800577-PFT Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 22, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. (1) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is currently on Active Duty?

-OR-

(2) Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority. 

-OR-

(3) Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? In order to be considered under this appointment authority you must not currently be serving or have served under this authority.

To verify your eligibility for option 1 identified above, you must submit official supporting documentation (i.e. copy of the Active Duty orders or statement of service)

To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3 identified above, you must submit all supporting documents identified on the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Member 4 copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.). For information on how to request veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000   or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/ 

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans Resources.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This question applies to current DHS employees. If you are not a current DHS employee, select No.  If you claim only this eligibility, and you are not a current DHS employee, you will not receive further consideration for this position.   

Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who is currently employed with DHS in a permanent competitive service position? DHS includes the following agencies: CBP, ICE, FEMA, FLETC, USCIS, USCG, USSS, etc.). Please visit http://dhsconnect.dhs.gov for a comprehensive list of all DHS agencies. 

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current DHS employee you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting: Tenure: Career or career-conditional (1 or 2) and Position Occupied: Competitive service (1).

If you do not meet any of the categories above, you must answer no to this question.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4.

The following question applies to a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service.  If you are not a current permanent federal employee in the competitive service, select No.   

Are you a current federal civilian employee with the Federal government in a permanent competitive service position? 

To verify your eligibility as indicated above, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) reflecting your current permanent position in the competitive service 

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2)  
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1)  

NOTE:  If you are a current federal employee in an excepted service position or other than permanent competitive service position then you are not eligible under this current federal employee eligibility.  If you have prior permanent competitive service with the federal government, you may be eligible as a reinstatement applicant if the announcement is open to former federal employees. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5.

Are you a current or former land management employee eligible to apply under The Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act as described in 5 U.S.C 9602, who meets the conditions below?  

Hired for a temporary or term position under a competitive appointment.  

Served one or more temporary or term appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years.  

Performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service.  

If no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following: 

Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 reflecting your time limited status. 

Additional Standard Form 50s may be required to demonstrate a service period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years.  

Your most recent performance appraisal demonstrating fully successful, or equivalent.  See Additional Information section of vacancy announcement for further details.    

If you have had multiple periods of time-limited employment, you must show proof of acceptable levels of employment for each of the periods of employment used to satisfy the 24-month requirement.  

 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

Instruction: As a federal competitive service employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current federal employee, have you held a permanent position in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. To verify your eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee with promotion potential, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form(s) 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form(s) that reflect:   

Tenure (Box 24): Career or career-conditional (1 or 2); AND 
Position Occupied (Box 34): Competitive service (1); OR 
Position Occupied (Box 34): Excepted service (2); when in another merit system which OPM has an interchange; AND 
Promotion Potential equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced. 
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.

You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. For information on how to request your veterans documentation please contact the Veterans Affairs Benefits and Services at 1-800-827-1000  or online via https://iris.custhelp.va.gov/app/ask/
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency? If yes, confirm:
You occupy (or have been separated from) a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with a confirmed Reemployment Priority List (RPL) registration that includes the following:
You have received notice that you will be displaced from the DHS, or
You have been separated by a reduction in force (RIF) from DHS within the last two years, or
You are fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year after compensation began, AND you have either separated from DHS due to a compensable injury or disability OR you have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation. 
 If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your eligibility, such as:
RPL registration documentation, AND
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
If recovered from a compensable injury, Department of Labor notification that injury compensation benefits will or have been ceased
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am applying as a VEOA and am not a current or former federal employee; OR I am a current or former federal employee eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act; OR I am applying as a Military Spouse.
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a current GS federal employee (or my previous federal employment in the last 52 weeks was) under one of the following appointments: temporary or as a Schedule B VEOA.
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 A. Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 B. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 C. No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 D. No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.
4. Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
6. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
7. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
8.

All newly appointed, first-time CBP supervisors are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors to attend within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, first time permanent supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with current agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former first time supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
The following question will only be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that included: Overseeing the planning, direction, and timely execution of a program; Managing and coordinating responses to budget data calls and inquiries from the Department, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Congress, and tracks due dates and timelines; Liaising with high-ranking officials in other Federal agencies, top-level managers in DHS, and various governing board/committees; Identifying and resolving uncertainties, unique situations, obscure problems, or conflicting objectives encountered during program execution.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience developing plans for a program or an organization.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. Under the close guidance of others, I have developed short-range plans for a program (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 C. I have independently developed both short- and long-range plans for a program or organization (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 D. I have overseen the development of plans for a program or organization that were broad in scope and complex, involving multiple organizational entities.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience communicating and coordinating to build consensus for actions needed to execute a program.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have communicated and coordinated within my immediate work unit to build consensus on actions needed to execute a project.
 C. I have communicated and coordinated extensively with managers and staff within an organizational department to build consensus on actions needed to execute a project.
 D. I have led communication and coordination with all levels of a large organization to build consensus on actions needed to execute a program.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience reporting to higher level officials on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 C. I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to higher level officials both within and outside my organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 D. I have given formal briefings to higher level officials in the organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
5. Select the option that best describes your experience in expressing facts and ideas in writing.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently completed one or more written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses. I have successfully tailored written information to the technical knowledge of my audience.
6. Select the option which best describes your experience in responding to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have adapted to minor or temporary changes affecting my own assignments or work schedule by rescheduling work or refocusing my efforts.
 C. I have rearranged some priorities and rescheduled a significant amount of work to accommodate changes in resources or goals. I have recommended new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
 D. I have rearranged virtually all work priorities and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks. I have chosen or developed new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
7. Select the option which best describes your experience projecting funding requirements for future initiatives in the out-years based upon anticipated agency needs.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task or function.
 B. I have had education, or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
8. Select the option that best describes your experience reviewing and analyzing budget submissions to including budgetary goals, timetables, milestones, and criteria for assessing program cost-effectiveness.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task or function.
 B. I have had education, or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
9. Select the option that best describes your experience attending briefings and conferences to justify and defend budget estimates.

 A. I have had no training or experience performing this task or function.
 B. I have had education, or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
10. Select the option that best describes your experience in budget formulation (i.e., development of performance-based budget requests).

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant.
 C. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant.
 D. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant.
 E. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function.
11. Select the option that best describes your experience interpreting legislative and policy issues that affect the organization's budget and programs.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have developed special exhibits required by the organization
 C. I have drafted authorization and appropriation language for my organization.
 D. I have analyzed legislation to determine the impact on the organization's budget, programs and operations.
 E. I have analyzed enacted legislation for use in developing organization's budget, policies and procedures.
12. Select the option that best describes your experience performing budget tasks in support of the major phases of the budget process (i.e., formulation, justification, presentation, execution, etc.).

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have conducted all aspects of budget formulation, and presentation for a national program.
 C. I developed an organization's budgetary policies and procedures or provided advice to executives on budget matters of major significance.
 D. I provided expert analysis and advice on a wide range of budgetary activities related to the review, justification, and presentation of an organization's budget (i.e., developing a cost-benefit analysis of proposed budgetary and program actions and providing advice on the most advantageous course(s) of action).
 E. I managed all phases of budget planning, programming, formulation, and presentation for a budget with multiple funds and multi-year programs.
13. Select the option that best describes your experience coordinating the preparation of major segments of an organization's budget.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have recommended and justified necessary budgetary changes to proposed program budgets.
 C. I have prepared reviewed, analyzed and interpreted legislative authorization and appropriation language.
 D. I have analyzed, advised and recommended solutions to budget formulation, justification and presentation problems.
 E. I have analyzed and edited budget estimates and requests submitted by program managers for accuracy of technical treatment and format, adequacy of the supporting narrative, statistical and graphic presentation and conformance with budgetary policy and guidance.
14. Select the option that best describes your experience communicating effectively with people of diverse budgetary skills and backgrounds.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have developed and maintained alliances with other budget professionals within and outside my organization.
 C. I have represented and spoken on behalf of my organizational unit and its work to those within and outside the office.
 D. I have participated in organizational level sessions to arrive at the overall budget strategies, which were pursued in the presentation phase of the organization's indirect budget requests. I have established and maintained working relationships with internal organizational units.
15. Selection the option that best describes your experience developing and writing guidelines when missing or incomplete.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 C. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected