Position Title
Clinical Lab Scientist - Blood Bank - Microbiology - Core Laboratory
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12814605-26-CHD Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Monday, October 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Technologist position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. This announcement is for Grade GS-11. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.  When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

This section addresses the basic qualifications for this vacancy announcement. Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
ENGLISH PROFICIENCY: Medical Technologists must be proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
United States Citizenship.  Are you a U.S. Citizen?

(Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens.)
 Yes
 No


3.
Basic Requirement: Education: Clinical Laboratory Scientist must possess one of the following:
(1) A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university in medical laboratory science, medical technology, clinical laboratory science or in a related science (e.g., laboratory sciences such as chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, immunology, etc.).  AND, Completion of a medical technology clinical practice program. Clinical practice programs completed after 1974 must have been accredited by the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences (NAACLS), Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP, formerly CAHEA), or the Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools (ABHES). The professional curriculum may have consisted of a post-baccalaureate certificate program or be integrated into a four-year program of study that culminated in a baccalaureate degree. OR,
 (2)  A bachelor's degree from an accredited college/university, including 16 semester hours of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry) and one course in mathematics, AND, two years of post-certification clinical laboratory experience (e.g., blood banking, chemistry, hematology, microbiology, immunology, clinical microscopy, etc.) within the last ten years as a certified Medical Laboratory Technician by the American Society for Clinical Pathology Board of Certification (ASCP-BOC), American Society of Clinical Pathology Board of Registry (ASCP-BOR) or American Medical Technologists (AMT). This experience must include performing moderate and/or high complexity testing in blood banking, chemistry, hematology, microbiology immunology and clinical microscopy (or categorical experience which matches categorical certification) in a clinical laboratory. OR,
(3)  A bachelor's degree from an accredited college/university, including 16 semester hours of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry) and one course in mathematics, AND five years of clinical laboratory experience within the last ten years performing moderate and/or high complexity testing in blood banking, chemistry, hematology, microbiology, immunology and clinical microscopy (or categorical experience which matches categorical certification) in a clinical laboratory.

Foreign Graduates:  Graduates of foreign baccalaureate degree programs meet the educational and/or experience requirements if the degree is found to be equivalent to degree programs recognized by the NAACLS or clinical laboratory experience as described in paragraph 2b(2) or (3) above. This finding may be based on either of the following: (1) A letter from a college or university with a baccalaureate program recognized by the NAACLS stating that the individual's foreign degree has been evaluated and been found to be equivalent to its bachelor of medical technology degree. (2) A letter from ASCP-BOC or AMT stating that the individual is eligible for the certification examination.

Please select the following answer that best describes your Education

*You must provide a copy of your transcripts with your job application.
 Yes, I have a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college/university including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*).
 Yes, I have the required bachelor's degree but am not currently certified as a MT, MLS, or CLS given by the ASCP-BOC, ASCP-BOR, or AMT.
 No, I do not have a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college/university including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*).


4.
Certification: Candidates must have either (A)or (B) below: Please select the following response that best describes your Certification. *You must provide a copy of your certification with your job application.
 I currently possess the Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 I possess the Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
 I do not possess either certification but currently have the required education and will have my certification within one year.
 I do not meet the certification requirement


5.
Grade 7
For the GS-07 Clinical Laboratory Scientist: Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:
Experience. None beyond the Basic requirement: 
Education: A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university in medical laboratory science, medical technology, clinical laboratory science or in a related science (e.g., laboratory sciences such as chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, immunology, etc.).
 Yes, I meet the basic requirements for this position to meet the GS-07 level.
 No, I do not meet the basic requirement for this position to meet the GS-07 level.


6.
For the GS-09 Clinical Laboratory Scientist:
Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:
Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade. OR,
Education: Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.   AND,
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.  In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
1. Comprehensive knowledge of professional MT principles, practices, concepts and theories providing for sound independent work.
2. Comprehensive knowledge of laboratory quality control and assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement in order to manage reagent and supply inventories and document control systems.
3. Knowledge of laboratory equipment and ability to maintain, troubleshoot and repair instrumentation.
4. Ability to plan, organize, set priorities, work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
5. Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
6. Ability to read, interpret and apply complex written instructions.
7. Skilled in informatics, laboratory data flow and the understanding of laboratory processes.
8. Ability to communicate, consult and interact with other members of the healthcare team, external relations, customer service and patient education

*Please select the following response that best describes your education or experience along with your knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-09.
 I have the year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, which is directly related to the position to be filled and demonstrate all the Knowledge, skills and abilities (1-8)
 I have a Master’s degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science and demonstrate all the Knowledge, skills and abilities (1-8) listed above.
 My education and experience are not reflected in answers A or B.


7.
*Please select the following response that best describes your education or experience along with your knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-11.
 GS-11 Clinical Laboratory Scientist: 
Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:
Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade. OR,
Education: Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science. AND,
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.  In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
a. Advanced knowledge and understanding of concepts, principles, methodology of medical laboratory technology, regulatory and accrediting agency requirements, medicolegal requirements and pertinent statistics sufficient to perform complex diagnostic tests.
b. Skill to apply new scientific/technical developments and theories to laboratory testing.
c. Advanced knowledge of instructional techniques to instruct newly hired technologists and clinical pathology residents in proper performance of tests and applications of the laboratory procedures.
d. Ability to develop procedures for new tests and modify existing procedures and methods in order to resolve problems relative to complex and difficult situations.
e. Advanced knowledge of a particular discipline or function with wide latitude for exercising sound independent judgment.

*Please select the following response that best describes your education or experience along with your knowledge, skills and abilities for the GS-11.
 I have the year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, which is directly related to the position to be filled and demonstrate all the Knowledge, skills and abilities (a-e) listed above.
 I have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science and demonstrate all the Knowledge, skills and abilities (a-e) listed above.
 My education and experience are not reflected in answers A or B.


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Duties (Be as detailed as possible.)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week, FT or PT acceptable) 
TRANSCRIPT REMINDER: Transcript(s) must be submitted if education is used to meet any requirement.
The conferring of degrees earned should be present on transcript(s).  Unofficial transcript(s) are acceptable.
CERTIFICATION REMINDER: You must submit a copy of your Certification listed with your application.
Note: omission of any of the above requirements on your resume you may be found ineligible


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙