Position Title
Aircraft Mechanic Inspector
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
OS-6054-25-ETA- 109(MP) Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.

Do you wish to be considered as a 30% or more disabled veteran?
Under this authority, an agency may appoint, without competition, an eligible disabled veteran to a term or temporary appointment in the Federal service.  In appropriate circumstances, a person receiving a temporary or term appointment under this authority may be converted to a permanent competitive service appointment.When using this authority to appoint on a permanent basis, you are first placed on a time limited appointment of at least 60 days and then converted to a permanent appointment at management's discretion.

To be eligible for a 30% or more disabled appointment, you must be the following:

Retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30 percent or more; or
Rated by the Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA) as having a compensable, service-connected disability of 30 percent or more.

To claim eligibility under 30% or more disabled, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

If you are claiming eligibility based on 30% or more service connected disability, you are required to submit documentation that is indicated on the SF-15 as acceptable proof of verification of your preference (i.e., official document, dated 1991 or later, from the Department of Veterans Affairs, or from a branch of the Armed Forces, certifying that the veterans total combined serviced-connected disability rating is 30% or more.

For more information on veteran hiring authorities, please click here

 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

Do you wish to be considered under CTAP?
To be eligible for Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP), a person must:

Be a current or former permanent competitive status DOI federal employee displaced from a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy with a current (or last) performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To claim eligibility under CTAP, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation which includes:

Reduction in force (RIF) separation notice;
SF-50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area;
You MUST also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Were you employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee AND did you:

• complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appropriated fund position(s) as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an overseas area; AND,
• receive a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating;
AND,
• return to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago?

For more information, review USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources. USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources. 

 To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, and performance appraisal.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5.

Do you wish to be considered under Merit Promotion?
To be eligible under competitive merit promotion, you must be:

A current or former (reinstatement eligible) permanent Federal civilian employee under a competitive career or career-conditional appointment.

To claim eligibility under competitive merit promotion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting current position information and competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1), AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then you MUST also submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
 A. Yes
 B. No
6.

Do you wish to be considered under ICTAP?
To be eligible for Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP), a person must:

Be a current or former permanent competitive status federal employee displaced from a position in a non-DOI federal agency (e.g., IRS, VA, Department of Labor, etc.) in the same local commuting area of the vacancy with a current (or last) performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To claim eligibility under ICTAP, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation which includes:

Reduction in force (RIF) separation notice;
SF-50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area;
You MUST also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7.

Do you wish to be considered under an OPM Interchange Agreement or a Miscellaneous Authority not regulated by OPM?
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

To be eligible for career or career-conditional appointment under an OPM Interchange Agreement, a person must:

Be currently serving under an appointment without time limit in another merit system or have been involuntarily separated from such appointment without personal cause within the preceding year; AND
Be currently serving in or have been involuntarily separated from a position covered by an interchange agreement (some agreements do not cover all positions of the other merit systems); AND
Have served continuously for at least 1 year in the other merit system prior to appointment under the interchange agreement.

To claim eligibility under an Interchange Agreement, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting current position information and type of appointment; AND
Documentation that you have served in the other merit system for at least one year.

For more information on Interchange Agreements, please click here

-OR- 
Are you a current or former Foreign Service employee?
-OR-
Are you a current:
• Postal Career Service Employee;
• Postal Rate Commission Employee;
• Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or
• Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.

 A. Yes
 B. No
8.

Do you wish to be considered under Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)?
If you're a current or former Land Management employee (Land management agencies include The Department of Agriculture's Forest Service, The Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Reclamation), who worked in a term or temporary job, you may be eligible to apply to merit promotion jobs at any federal agency.

Two groups of individuals are potentially eligible for appointment, including current and/or former employees serving or served under time-limited competitive appointments at land management agencies (as defined above). Land Management Eligibles (LME's) must meet the following eligibility criteria:

• Current land management agency appointees:

must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under one (1) or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.
must meet time in grade requirements.

• Former land management agency appointees:

must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under one (1) or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two (2) or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within two (2) years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.
must meet time in grade requirements.

Note: A former employee, who otherwise meets the requirements for eligibility, shall be deemed an employee of the agency from which the former employee was most recently separated.

To claim eligibility under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA), you must submit the following documentation with your application:

SF-50(s) showing the above criteria
Employee Performance Appraisal (Employee Performance Ratings or equivalent)

For more information the LMWFA, please click here

 A. Yes
 B. No
9.

Do you wish to be considered as a Military Spouse?
To be eligible for appointment under this authority, you must be the spouse of one of the following:

Active Duty Spouse:

Includes all spouses of members of the armed forces on active duty
Spouses do not have to relocate with active duty spouse

Based on 100% Disability: As a military spouse, you may be eligible to be considered under this authority if:

The military member was retired under Chapter 61 of title 10, United States Code with a 100% disability rating from the military; or
Was released from active duty and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans' Affairs or the military department.

Note: There is no geographic limitation under this category. You will be required to provide documentation of your spouse's disability.

Based on Service Member's Death: As the military spouse, you may be eligible if the military member was killed while on active duty (it does not have to be combat related), and you have not remarried.

Note: There is no geographic limitation in this category. You will be required to provide documentation on the death of the spouse and your marital status at the time of death.

Documentation Required: To confirm eligibility the hiring agency must verify the individual has a valid marriage certificate or other documentation verifying marriage (such as any official documentation verifying a recognized common law marriage). In addition, the service member's spouse must be authorized on the military orders assigning the service member to a certain post.  To verify this, please submit a copy of your marriage license, the military orders regarding the PCS move, documentation of disability as outlined above (if applicable), or documentation that the service member was killed while on active duty (and you are not remarried) (if applicable).

 A. Yes
 B. No
10.

Do you wish to be considered under National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA)?
Former Peace Corps Volunteers:  Under this authority, a former Peace Corps volunteer who recently completed his/her volunteer service may be appointed without competition to a permanent position in the Federal competitive service.

To be eligible for appointment under this authority, you must have satisfactorily completed your volunteer service in the Peace Corps within the past year.
To claim eligibility, you must provide a letter from the Peace Corps indicating the beginning and end dates of your volunteer service, certifying that you served satisfactorily.

Former Peace Corps Employees:  Under this authority, a former Peace Corps employee (other than a volunteer) who recently completed at least 36 months of continuous service with the Peace Corps may be appointed without competition to a permanent appointment in the Federal competitive service.

To be eligible for appointment under this authority, you must have satisfactorily completed no less than 36 months of continuous service in the Peace Corps within the past three years.
To claim eligibility, you must provide a letter from the Peace Corps indicating the beginning and end dates of your service as an employee of the Peace Corps, certifying that you served satisfactorily.
 A. Yes
 B. No
11.

Do you wish to be considered under Non-Competitive Merit Promotion?

To be eligible under non-competitive merit promotion, you must be:

A Current or former (reinstatement eligible) competitive, career/career-conditional Federal employee who has previously competed for, held, or currently holds, the full performance level of the position you are applying.

To claim eligibility under non-competitive merit promotion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent or past SF-50 in order to verify your claim for non-competitive eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade competed for or held, then you MUST also submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12.

Are you eligible for conversion from a Pathways Internship?
This authority allows for current Pathways Interns that have completed all Pathways program requirements to be non-competitively converted to a permanent or Term position in the competitive service.

To be eligible for non-competitive conversion from a Pathways Intern position, a person must:

Must be a U.S. Citizen
Be within the 180-day conversion time-frame from the date their degree, career, or technical education program requirements are conferred;
Completed at least 480 hours of work experience acquired through the Internship Program while enrolled full-time or part-time;
Completed their degree, career, or technical education program requirements;
Meet the qualification standards for the position to which the Intern will be converted;
Meet agency-specific requirements as specified in the Participant's Agreement; and,
Maintain acceptable performance under the agency's approved performance management system.
Receive favorable recommendation for conversion from supervisor.
Indefinite Interns must have a completed IDP.
 

To claim eligibility for non-competitive conversion under a Pathways Intern appointment, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation including:

Transcripts with degree date, unofficial will be accepted, however official transcripts will be required prior to a final job offer;
Current pathways agreement;
a favorable recommendation for conversion from the work experience supervisor;
Current SF-50 showing Pathways status.
 A. Yes
 B. No
13.

Do you wish to be considered under Schedule A?
To be eligible under Schedule A, you must be:

A candidate with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.  Under this authority, a person with severe physical or mental disabilities may be appointed without competition to an excepted service position on a temporary or non-temporary basis. Upon completion of two years of satisfactory service under a non-temporary Schedule A appointment, the appointee may be converted to a permanent appointment in the competitive service. *** Please note: This authority cannot be used for Pathways positions.

To claim eligibility under Schedule A, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A certification statement/proof of disability from a state Vocational Rehabilitation Service (state or private), Department of Veterans Affairs, a licensed medical professional, or any Federal agency, State agency or agency of the District of Columbia or U. S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.  Note: Certification Statement/Proof of disability (i.e., a record, statement, or other appropriate documentation confirming a severe physical, mental, or psychiatric disability) issued by a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any Federal or State agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
 A. Yes
 B. No
14.

Do you wish to be considered under Public Land Corp (PLC)?
To be eligible for a Public Land Corp (PLC) appointment:

The candidate must have completed his/her most recent Corp service, which provided him/her with a total of 640 hours, inclusive of 120 hours on a PLC project as defined in 16 USC 1723(d), within the last two (2) years.  The candidate must between the ages of 16-30 (inclusive).

To claim eligibility under Public Land Corp (PLC), you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of the "Certificate of Eligibility for Non-competitive Hiring Status (PLC), signed by a bureau PLC Coordinator.

 A. Yes
 B. No
15.

Do you wish to be considered under VEOA?
The VEOA allows veterans' preference eligibles and other veterans who have been separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions to apply and be considered for certain vacancies that are otherwise open only to status or reinstatement-eligible applicants outside of DOI.

To be eligible under VEOA, you must be one of the following:

A veterans' preference eligible; or
A veteran who was separated from the armed forces after substantially completing three or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions (this means an honorable or general discharge).

To claim eligibility under VEOA, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your DD-214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," preferably the Member 4 copy, showing the dates of active duty, type of discharge, and character of service (must be honorable; (this means an honorable or general discharge).

Note for Active duty service members expecting to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions within 120 days: you may be granted tentative preference by submitting a "certification" document in lieu of a Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD 214.  A "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions within 120 days after the certification is submitted by the applicant.

If you are claiming eligibility based on 10-point veterans' preference (CPS, CP, XP), you are required to submit documentation that is indicated on the SF-15 as acceptable proof of verification of your preference (i.e., official document, dated 1991 or later, from the Department of Veterans Affairs, or from a branch of the Armed Forces, certifying that the veterans total combined serviced-connected disability rating is 10% or more.
 A. Yes
 B. No
16.

Do you wish to be considered under VRA?
Under VRA, an agency may hire eligible veterans without competition up to the GS-11 grade level. Upon satisfactory completion of two years of service in a VRA appointment, the appointee must be converted to a permanent appointment in the Federal competitive service.To be eligible for a VRA appointment, you must have been separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions (this means an honorable or general discharge) and be one of the following:

A Disabled veteran;
A Veteran who served on active duty in the Armed Forces during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized;
A Veteran who, while serving on active duty in the Armed Forces, participated in a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces Service Medal was awarded; or
A recently separated veterans (within 3 years).

To claim eligibility under VRA, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Your DD-214(s) (reflecting character of service and type of discharge).
If you are claiming eligibility based on 10-point veterans' preference (CPS, CP), you are required to submit documentation that is indicated on the SF-15 as acceptable proof of verification of your preference (i.e., official document, dated 1991 or later, from the Department of Veterans Affairs, or from a branch of the Armed Forces, certifying that the veterans total combined serviced-connected disability rating is 10% or more.
 A. Yes
 B. No
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
17. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
18. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
19. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
20. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
21. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. It is your responsibility to ensure that your resume and correct documents are uploaded and received. Please, verify during the application process on the "application review page" that you have uploaded the appropriate documentation as stated in the required documents section of the vacancy announcement. No documentation will be accepted after the closing date of the announcement. I understand that it is my responsibility that I must submit a resume and all required supporting documentation prior to the closing date of the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. What attracted you to this position?
 A. Service as a Civil Servant
 B. Government Benefits
 C. Salary
 D. Work Schedule Flexibility
 E. Downturn in Non-Federal Job Market
 F. Job Stability
 G. Office Location
 H. Other
3. If you have ever held a Federal position please indicate your pay plan, highest grade held, and dates held below (e.g. GS-13; 08/15/11 - 08/15/12). If applying based on noncompetitive eligibility and if you do not have prior Federal service, please type "N/A" in the text box below. (limit 100 characters)
4. Applicants who apply under this job opportunity announcement have the option to have their application, associated documents and applicable personal information shared with other Bureaus/Offices within the Department of the Interior (DOI) that have vacancies within the same occupational series, grade, promotion potential and in the same geographic location(s), including within the same metro/commuting area. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration. If you select "yes", your information could potentially be shared with other bureaus if there is a need to fill another position. If you select "no", your information will NOT be shared with other bureaus. Do you agree to have your information shared with other bureaus?
 A. Yes, I would like my information shared with other bureaus.
 B. No, I would not like my information shared with other bureaus.
Assessment 1
Please note that you will only be considered for the eligibility option(s) for which you select. You may select more than one option of consideration, if applicable. If the required documentation is not received by the closing date of the announcement, you will be found ineligible for the position and will be removed from further review. A resume is required for ALL consideration options.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. I certify that I have read each of the referral eligibilities identified in this announcement and I have selected the eligibility or eligibilities that I wish to be considered. I understand that failure to identify an eligibility or eligibilities will result in loss of consideration for this announcement. I understand that I must submit all required documentation to verify my eligibility by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Thank you for your interest in this vacancy. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.
Please read all of the statements below, and then select the response that best describes your current certification/ licensure. This job has a selective placement factor element which will be used to determine minimum eligibility for this job. Applicants who do not possess the certification and/or licensure or qualified, or willing and able to obtain one will be ineligible. Your resume and responses to the self-assessment questions are an integral part of the process for determining your qualifications for this position. Therefore, it is important that your resume supports your responses to the assessment questions.
2. Do you possess a current Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Mechanic Certificate with Airframe and Powerplant (A&P) Rating with current Inspection Authorization (IA) privileges; OR, Qualified, and willing to obtain an IA within 6 months of employment?
Note: Inspection Authorization must be obtained within 6 months of employment or candidate will be found ineligible for position and terminated.
 A. I possess a current Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Mechanic Certificate with Airframe and Powerplant (A&P) Rating with current Inspection Authorization (IA) privileges and have submitted proof of the certificates with my application.
 B. I DO NOT possess a current Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Mechanic Certificate with Airframe and Powerplant (A&P) Rating with current Inspection Authorization (IA), but I am qualified, willing, and able to obtain an IA within 6 months of employment.
 C. I do not meet any of the above statements.
3. Have you been actively engaged, for at least the preceding three-year period, in maintaining light piston powered aircraft certificated and maintained, in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. If you answered "Yes" to the question above, please specify where this experience is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties). (limit 250 characters)
5. Do you currently hold an effective mechanic certificate with both an airframe and a powerplant rating, each of which is currently effective and has been in effect for a total of at least three years?
 A. Yes, and I have submitted proof of the certificates with my application.
 B. No
Please read all of the statements below, and then select the response that best describes your current ability to meet the conditions of employment. This job has conditions of employment which will be used to determine minimum eligibility for this job. Applicants who answer "no" to any of the questions below will be found ineligible.
6. Do you possess a valid state Driver's license?
 A. Yes, I have submitted a copy of my license to verify this information.
 B. No, I do not currently have a valid state driver's license.
7. Are you physically able to independently lift and carry parts and equipment up to 20 pounds and lift and carry items up to 50 pounds as a routine job function?

 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you able to perform work inside a heated hanger on concrete floors or on work stands/ladders and also outside in adverse weather conditions while subject to extremely loud noises during maintenance operations and engine run-up tests?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Do you possess sufficient hearing, vision, and physical dexterity to fulfill the position of a journeyman Airframe and Powerplant technician with Inspectors Authorization?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Do you have the ability to do the work of an aircraft mechanic inspector without more than normal supervision such as: perform inspection, maintenance, repair, and/or alteration to certificated light piston powered aircraft and associated components and systems and complete the return to service of certificated light piston powered aircraft?
 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Are you able to work independently or as part of a team after receiving daily work assignments in order to make airworthiness determinations and effect repairs on deficient aircraft/aircraft components and release aircraft from maintenance for return to service?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. When assistance is needed in complex situations, are you able to be an effective participant in decision making and provide insight to work leaders and management?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
13. Do you have experience inspecting incoming aircraft and aircraft components to verify discrepancies found during operational use and determine type and extent of repair required?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Do you have experience inspecting proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility, applicability, and airworthiness of the repairs?
 A. Yes
 B. No
15. If you answered "Yes" to the question above, please specify where this experience is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).
(limit 250 characters)
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
16. Do you have experience conducting and completing, including release from maintenance for return to service, annual inspections, 100-hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Only select one response for each item. Read all responses before making your selection. You are required to answer every question in the questionnaire. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM IN THE QUESTIONNAIRE IN ORDER TO BE FOUND QUALIFIED AND CONSIDERED FOR THE POSITION.
17. Ensures all parts and materials used on certified light piston powered aircraft are approved, correct, serviceable, and eligible for installation.

 A. I am not familiar with insuring that all parts and materials used on aircraft are approved, correct, serviceable, and eligible for installation.
 B. I am familiar with insuring that all parts and materials used on aircraft are approved, correct, serviceable, and eligible for installation, but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; insuring that all parts and materials used on aircraft are approved, correct, serviceable, and eligible for installation with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability, insuring that all parts and materials used on aircraft are approved, correct, serviceable, and eligible for installation as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability, ensuring that all parts and materials used on aircraft are approved, correct, serviceable, and eligible for installation as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
18. Identifies and applies new technologies that support aviation mission safety, efficiency, and cost effectiveness.

 A. I am not familiar with identifying and applying new technologies that support aviation mission safety, efficiency, and cost effectiveness.
 B. I am familiar with identifying and applying new technologies that support aviation mission safety, efficiency and cost effectiveness, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; identifying and applying new technologies that support aviation mission safety, efficiency and cost effectiveness with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability; identifying and applying new technologies that support aviation mission safety, efficiency and cost effectiveness as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as identifying and applying new technologies that support aviation mission safety, efficiency and cost effectiveness and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
19. Conducts or assists others in the completion of Major Repairs or Major Alterations and executes FAA form 337 as defined by the Federal Aviation Regulations on certificated light piston powered civil aircraft.

 A. I am not familiar with conducting or assisting others in the completion of Major Repairs or Major Alterations and executed FAA form 337 as defined by the Federal Aviation Regulations on certificated light piston powered civil aircraft.
 B. I am familiar with conducting or assisting others in the completion of Major Repairs or Major Alterations and executed FAA form 337 as defined by the Federal Aviation Regulations on certificated light piston powered civil aircraft, but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting or assisting others in the completion of Major Repairs or Major Alterations and executed FAA form 337 as defined by the Federal Aviation Regulations on certificated light piston powered civil aircraft with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability; conducting or assisting others in the completion of Major Repairs or Major Alterations and executed FAA form 337 as defined by the Federal Aviation Regulations on certificated light piston powered civil aircraft as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting or assisting others in the completion of Major Repairs or Major Alterations and executed FAA form 337 as defined by the Federal Aviation Regulations on certificated light piston powered civil aircraft and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
20. Inspects incoming aircraft and aircraft components, and verifies discrepancies found during operational use to determine type and extent of repair required.

 A. I am not familiar with inspecting incoming aircraft and aircraft components, and verify discrepancies found during operational use to determine type and extent of repair required.
 B. I am familiar with inspecting incoming aircraft and aircraft components, and verifying discrepancies found during operational use to determine type and extent of repair required, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; inspecting incoming aircraft and aircraft components, and verifying discrepancies found during operational use to determine type and extent of repair required with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability; inspecting incoming aircraft and aircraft components, and verifying discrepancies found during operational use to determine type and extent of repair required as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; inspecting incoming aircraft and aircraft components, and verifying discrepancies found during operational use to determine type and extent of repair required and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
21. Inspects proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility and applicability and airworthiness of the repairs.

 A. I am not familiar with inspecting proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility and applicability and airworthiness of the repairs.
 B. I am familiar with inspecting proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility and applicability and airworthiness of the repairs, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; inspecting proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility and applicability and airworthiness of the repairs with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability inspecting proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility and applicability and airworthiness of the repairs as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; inspecting proposed and completed maintenance actions performed by other mechanics to determine eligibility and applicability and airworthiness of the repairs and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
22. Conducts and completes, to include release from maintenance for return to service, Annual inspections, or 100-hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations.

 A. I am not familiar with conducting and completing, to include release from maintenance for return to service, Annual inspections, or 100 hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations.
 B. I am familiar conducting and completing, to include release from maintenance for return to service, Annual inspections, or 100 hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting and completing, to include release from maintenance for return to service, Annual inspections, or 100 hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability conducting and completing, to include release from maintenance for return to service, Annual inspections, or 100 hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting and completing, to include release from maintenance for return to service, Annual inspections, or 100 hour inspections or phase inspections (all phases) on certificated light piston powered aircraft maintained in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
23. Conductes control system rigging or inspected completed rigging maintenance actions on light general aviation helicopters.
 A. I am not familiar with conducting control system rigging or inspecting completed rigging maintenance actions on light general aviation helicopters.
 B. I am familiar with conducting control system rigging or inspected completed rigging maintenance actions on light general aviation helicopters, but I have no personal experience performing the work.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability conducting control system rigging or inspecting completed rigging maintenance actions on light general aviation helicopters, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability conducting control system rigging or inspecting completed rigging maintenance actions on light general aviation helicopters, with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability conducting control system rigging or inspecting completed rigging maintenance actions on light general aviation helicopters and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
24. Conducts maintenance, and releases from maintenance for return to service, certified general aviation helicopters in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations.

 A. I am not familiar with conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified general aviation helicopters in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations.
 B. I am familiar with conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified general aviation helicopters in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations, but I have no personal experience performing the work.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified general aviation helicopters in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified general aviation helicopters in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified general aviation helicopters in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
25. Briefly and accurately expresses, orally or in writing, complex technical problems in terms that permit the listener to make a valid decision.

 A. I am not familiar with briefly and accurately expressing, orally or in writing, complex technical problems in terms that permit the listener to make a valid decision.
 B. I am familiar with briefly and accurately expressing, orally or in writing, complex technical problems in terms that permit the listener to make a valid decision, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; briefly and accurately expressing, orally or in writing, complex technical problems in terms that permit the listener to make a valid decision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability briefly and accurately expressing, orally or in writing, complex technical problems in terms that permit the listener to make a valid decision as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; briefly and accurately expressing, orally or in writing, complex technical problems in terms that permit the listener to make a valid decision and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
26. Conducts maintenance, and releases from maintenance for return to service, certified light single engine piston aircraft in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations.

 A. I am not familiar with conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified light single engine piston aircraft in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations.
 B. I am familiar with conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified light single engine piston aircraft in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified light single engine piston aircraft in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified light single engine piston aircraft in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting maintenance, and releasing from maintenance for return to service, certified light single engine piston aircraft in accordance with the Federal Aviation Regulations and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
27. Develops and maintains good working relationships with customers, coworkers, and stakeholders.

 A. I am not familiar with developing and maintaining good working relationships with customers, coworkers, and stakeholders.
 B. I am familiar with developing and maintaining good working relationships with customers, coworkers, and stakeholders, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; developing and maintaining good working relationships with customers, coworkers, and stakeholders, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability, developing, and maintaining good working relationships with customers, coworkers, and stakeholders as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as developing and maintaining good working relationships with customers, coworkers, and stakeholders and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
28. Cooperates in a professional manner with team members to identify and discuss problems and collaborate within a team environment to achieve desired outcomes.

 A. I am not familiar with cooperating in a professional manner with team members to identify and discuss problems and collaborate within a team environment to achieve desired outcomes.
 B. I am familiar with cooperating in a professional manner with team members to identify and discuss problems and collaborate within a team environment to achieve desired outcomes but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; with cooperating in a professional manner with team members to identify and discuss problems and collaborate within a team environment to achieve desired outcomes, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability, cooperating in a professional manner with team members to identify and discuss problems and collaborate within a team environment to achieve desired outcomes as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as with cooperating in a professional manner with team members to identify and discuss problems and collaborate within a team environment to achieve desired outcomes and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision. For the task below choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or training.
29. Have you been in an environment where you effectively projected a positive attitude supportive to the objectives of the organization in achieving customer service excellence? NOTE: If you answer yes to this question you may be asked to elaborate if you are brought in for an interview.

 A. Yes
 B. No
30. Locates and scrutinizes a Type Certificate Data Sheet and Supplemental Type Certificates to determine what equipment may be installed or is required to be installed on an aircraft.
 A. I am not familiar with locating and scrutinizing a Type Certificate Data Sheet and Supplemental Type Certificates to determine what equipment may be installed or is required to be installed on an aircraft.
 B. I am familiar with locating and scrutinizing a Type Certificate Data Sheet and Supplemental Type Certificates to determine what equipment may be installed or is required to be installed on an aircraft, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; locating and scrutinizing a Type Certificate Data Sheet and Supplemental Type Certificates to determine what equipment may be installed or is required to be installed on an aircraft, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability locating and scrutinizing a Type Certificate Data Sheet and Supplemental Type Certificates to determine what equipment may be installed or is required to be installed on an aircraft with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; locating and scrutinizing a Type Certificate Data Sheet and Supplemental Type Certificates to determine what equipment may be installed or is required to be installed on an aircraft and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
31. Understands how to utilize Material Safety Data Sheets for protection of self and the environment.
 A. I am not familiar with utilizing Material Safety Data Sheets for protection of self and the environment.
 B. I am familiar with utilizing Material Safety Data Sheets for protection of self and the environment, but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as utilizing Material Safety Data Sheets for protection of self and the environment requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability utilizing Material Safety Data Sheets for protection of self and the environment with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as utilizing Material Safety Data Sheets for protection of self and the environment and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
32. Conducts landing gear changes (I.E. unserviceable gear to serviceable gear, wheels to floats, wheels to ski's) on certificated light piston powered aircraft.
 A. I am not familiar with conducting landing gear changes (I.E. unserviceable gear to serviceable gear, wheels to floats, wheels to ski's) on certificated light piston powered aircraft.
 B. I am familiar with conducting landing gear changes (I.E. unserviceable gear to serviceable gear, wheels to floats, wheels to ski's) on certificated light piston powered aircraft, but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting landing gear changes (I.E. unserviceable gear to serviceable gear, wheels to floats, wheels to ski's) on certificated light piston powered aircraft, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability, conducting landing gear changes (I.E. unserviceable gear to serviceable gear, wheels to floats, wheels to ski's) on certificated light piston powered aircraft, with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; conducting landing gear changes (I.E. unserviceable gear to serviceable gear, wheels to floats, wheels to ski's) on certificated light piston powered aircraft and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
33. Utilizes precision measuring equipment, calibrated equipment, and affect its proper care.
 A. I am not familiar with utilizing precision measuring equipment, calibrated equipment, and affecting its proper care.
 B. I am familiar with utilizing precision measuring equipment, calibrated equipment, and affecting its proper care, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; with utilizing precision measuring equipment, calibrated equipment, and affecting its proper care, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability, with utilizing precision measuring equipment, calibrated equipment, and affecting its proper care, with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as with utilizing precision measuring equipment, calibrated equipment, and affecting its proper care and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
34. Accomplish track and balance on light general aviation helicopter rotor systems.
 A. I am not familiar with accomplishing track and balance on light general aviation helicopter rotor systems.
 B. I am familiar with accomplishing track and balance on light general aviation helicopter rotor systems, but I have no personal experience performing the work.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability accomplishing track and balance on light general aviation helicopter rotor systems requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability accomplishing track and balance on light general aviation helicopter rotor systems with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability accomplishing track and balance on light general aviation helicopter rotor systems and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
35. Interprets and applies Federal Aviation Regulations, Repair Station Manual Guidelines and manufacturers manuals when conducting or evaluating maintenance to ensure regulatory compliance in support of producing Airworthy aircraft.

 A. I am not familiar with interpreting and applying Federal Aviation Regulations, Repair station Manual Guidelines and manufacturers manuals when conducting or evaluating maintenance to ensure regulatory compliance in support of producing Airworthy aircraft.
 B. I am familiar with interpreting and applying Federal Aviation Regulations, Repair station Manual Guidelines and manufacturers manuals when conducting or evaluating maintenance to ensure regulatory compliance in support of producing Airworthy aircraft, but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; interpreting and applying Federal Aviation Regulations, Repair station Manual Guidelines and manufacturers manuals when conducting or evaluating maintenance to ensure regulatory compliance in support of producing Airworthy aircraft with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability interpreting and applying Federal Aviation Regulations, Repair station Manual Guidelines and manufacturers manuals when conducting or evaluating maintenance to ensure regulatory compliance in support of producing Airworthy aircraft with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; interpreting and applying Federal Aviation Regulations, Repair station Manual Guidelines and manufacturers manuals when conducting or evaluating maintenance to ensure regulatory compliance in support of producing Airworthy aircraft and have instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
36. Evaluates for suitability initial installation of various supplemental type certificates STC (i.e., floats, skis, and other alterations) and execute installation.

 A. I am not familiar with evaluating for suitability initial installation of various supplemental type certificates STC (i.e., floats, skis, and other alterations) and executing installation.
 B. I am familiar with evaluating for suitability initial installation of various supplemental type certificates STC (i.e., floats, skis and other alterations) and executing installation, but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; evaluating for suitability initial installation of various supplemental type certificates STC (i.e., floats, skis and other alterations) and executing installation with minimal supervision, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory evaluating for suitability initial installation of various supplemental type certificates STC (i.e., floats, skis and other alterations) and executing installation with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as evaluating for suitability initial installation of various supplemental type certificates STC (i.e., floats, skis and other alterations) and executing installation and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
37. Adjusts, troubleshoots, and repairs aircraft piston engines to include fuel, ignition and indicating systems.

 A. I am not familiar with adjusting, troubleshooting, and repairing piston engines to include fuel, ignition and indicating systems.
 B. I am familiar with adjusting, troubleshooting and repairing piston engines to include fuel, ignition and indicating systems, but I have no personal experience performing this work as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; adjusting, troubleshooting and repairing piston engines to include fuel, ignition and indicating systems, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability adjusting, troubleshooting, and repairing piston engines to include fuel, ignition and indicating systems with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as adjusting, troubleshooting, and repairing piston engines to include fuel, ignition and indicating systems and has instructed or trained others in performing these tasks without supervision.
38. Prevents, controls, identifies, treats, and repairs damage caused by various types of corrosion.

 A. I am not familiar with preventing, controlling, identifying, treating, and repairing damage caused by various types of corrosion.
 B. I am familiar with preventing, controlling, identifying, treating and repairing damage caused by various types of corrosion but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; preventing, controlling, identifying, treating and repairing damage caused by various types of corrosion, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability preventing, controlling, identifying, treating, and repairing damage caused by various types of corrosion with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as preventing, controlling, identifying, treating, and repairing damage caused by various types of corrosion and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
39. Applies effective risk management strategies to mitigate present or potential problems.

 A. I am not familiar with applying effective risk management strategies to mitigate present or potential problems.
 B. I am familiar with applying effective risk management strategies to mitigate present or potential problems but I have no personal experience performing the work of an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector.
 C. I have demonstrated satisfactory ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as; applying effective risk management strategies to mitigate present or potential problems, requesting assistance periodically on complex and unusual tasks.
 D. I have demonstrated acceptable or potential satisfactory ability applying effective risk management strategies to mitigate present or potential problems with close supervision or oversight and requesting assistance or guidance on routine tasks.
 E. I have demonstrated superior ability working as an Aircraft Mechanic Inspector such as applying effective risk management strategies to mitigate present or potential problems and have instructed or trained others in performing tasks without supervision.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
40. This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Moderate Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated Public Trust Suitability Background Investigation (T2S or T2RS or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.
Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?

 A. Yes
 B. No
41. During the last 7 years, have you been under any investigations?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected