Position Title
Supervisory Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-LG-12761864-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 15, 2025 to Monday, July 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, If, after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated in eligible for this position.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Do you have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-12 level, as defined in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. GS positions  -  Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume. If qualifying based on education alone, please enter Not Applicable.
Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
(limit 500 characters)
3. Select all responses that best reflect your skill in program planning and management.
 A. Formulates and recommends plans to improve exercise program policies, practices and methods and organizational structure.
 B. Coordinates requirements among other components and partners in the formative stages of program initiation, project design, project implementation, and management of ongoing programs.
 C. Translates management goals and objectives into effective operations and monitors goals and program priorities to evaluate results.
 D. Provides authoritative guidance and leadership in the planning, development, conducting, and evaluation of emergency preparedness exercises.
 E. None of the above
4. I have served as subject matter expert on exercise matters to federal, state and/or local government agencies.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Select all responses that describe your experience conducting analytical studies.
 A. I have applied analytical techniques to program effectiveness data.
 B. Used data analysis to provide recommendations on the effectiveness of national-level program operations.
 C. I have coordinated or led analytical studies on matters affecting federal, state and/or local units of government.
 D. None of the above.
6. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience applying multiple planning and implementation strategies to address emergency management needs through programmatic interventions.
 A. I have built a comprehensive business case to demonstrate the need for a special project.
 B. I have developed a project plan for complex project(s).
 C. I have determined and assigned roles and responsibilities to team members to execute a project.
 D. I have established goals and objectives for a project based on leadership guidance.
 E. I have monitored work progress and provided feedback to project members.
 F. I have developed risk mitigation strategies to prepare for project implementation challenges.
 G. I have evaluated the effectiveness of project execution.
 H. I have served as the main project manager on an exercise.
 I. I have led the coordination of multiple exercise programs implemented simultaneously.
 J. None of the above.
7. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience developing alternative courses of action to address customer issues.
 A. I have identified alternative courses of action for a complex or time sensitive issue.
 B. I have identified associated costs and benefits for a complex or time sensitive issue.
 C. I have developed alternative courses of action for consideration by customer management.
 D. I have implemented alternative courses of action on behalf of a customer.
 E. None of the above.
8. Have you worked with confidential or sensitive client/customer service data?
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. From the list below, select all responses that reflect the group(s) you have instructed or coached on maintaining a professional image to customers and/or other external parties.
 A. Co-workers
 B. Subordinates
 C. Other employees within my organization
 D. None of the above
10. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience providing assistance to co-workers.
 A. I have assisted in the development of training materials or job aids.
 B. I have conducted on-the-job training.
 C. I have served as a mentor or coach.
 D. I have volunteered to assist co-workers in the completion of their task(s).
 E. I have been assigned to assist co-workers in the completion of their task(s).
 F. None of the above.
11. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) the interpersonal skills you have used to foster cooperation, convey information, or resolve conflicts.
 A. I have explained findings or recommendations to upper-level managers.
 B. I have planned meetings with external individuals, industry groups, and/or organizations.
 C. I have informed colleagues or senior management of events that may impact ongoing work.
 D. I have collaborated with internal or external representatives to achieve mutual goals.
 E. None of the above.
12. Have you coached or mentored others in your profession?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. From the list below, select the statements that describe your ability to complete supervisory task(s). Select all that apply.
 A. Oversaw, directed or developed work to be accomplished by subordinates
 B. Prepared schedules for completion of work
 C. Responsible for the first line supervision of employees
 D. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees
 E. Developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work
 F. Gave advice, counsel or instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters
 G. Interviewed candidates for positions in a unit
 H. I have not performed any of the above listed supervisory tasks
14. From the list below, Select the response(s) that best describe(s) your experience leading a workforce or team in the delivery of work programs or projects.
 A. Led a large (20 or more) workforce of varying professional disciplines, technical disciplines, and/or administrative staff.
 B. Led team members to accomplish a specific project.
 C. Provided guidance to a workforce in prioritizing work.
 D. None of the above.
15. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience supporting customers.
 A. I have responded to questions regarding standard and non-standard procedures.
 B. I have verified documented customer requirements.
 C. I have identified customer requirements.
 D. I have identified and discussed technical challenges to customer needs.
 E. I have discussed best practice approaches to address customer service requirements.
 F. I have enforced compliance with policies or procedures.
 G. I have provided feedback on customer documentation.
 H. I have successfully resolved issues encountered involving difficult or uncooperative customers (or had difficult or uncooperative customers referred to me for action).
 I. I have referred difficult or uncooperative customers to a supervisor or manager.
 J. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
16. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected