Position Title
Training & Curriculum Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20250610-40300-042811-CJ-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 27, 2025 to Sunday, July 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Your resume should support your answers to the questions stated below.
1. To qualify for the GS-09, choose one answer that best describes your experience or combination of experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position of this grade.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience to at least the GS-7 level of Federal service.
 B. I have successfully completed a 4-year degree in a subject matter field or was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience at the GS-07 grade level.
 D. I do not meet any of the requirements as described.
2. Choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience in customer service.
 A. I have trained and/or advised others on performing this kind of work in a legal office setting.
 B. I have reviewed supporting documents from customers and coordinating appointments for a legal office.
 C. I have answered customer inquires and referred them to appropriate staff for further assistance.
 D. I have answered phone calls and screening requests from customers.
 E. I have received training in customer service but have not performed this type of work on the job.
 F. I have no customer service experience.
3. Do you have experience identifying customer needs in your work?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I researched and responded to customer inquiries on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. TRUE
 B. FALSE
5. In what ways have you developed or maintained collaborative relationships?
 A. I sustained cooperative working relationships within the organization and with customer groups.
 B. I influenced and persuaded others.
 C. I built consensus through collaboration, gaining followers and cooperation from others to obtain information, achieve results, and accomplish goals.
 D. I fostered cooperation and consensus among groups.
 E. I fostered shared leadership, built trust among team members and created commitment to team goals.
 F. None of the above.
6. In which ways have you interacted with others at work?
 A. Working with others to come to a mutually acceptable decision.
 B. Expressing thoughts or opinions in a logical sequence as a team or work group member.
 C. Explaining technical issues to a wide variety of audiences.
 D. Representing my organization at briefings, meetings or conferences.
 E. None of the above.
 F. Dealt with individuals who were difficult, hostile or distressed
 G. Succeeded in working with co-workers, supervisors and high level management
 H. Identified and responded to critical events with diplomacy and action
 I. Negotiated with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, compliance or a solution
 J. Furnishing personnel with technical information concerning intent and application of mariner credentialing policy and regulations.
7. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience collaborating with a diverse set of sponsoring managers, resource managers, project managers, and end users?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
8. For which reasons have you analyzed information?
 A. To perform an analysis to resolve operational problems by utilizing databases in ACCESS, SQL or similar software
 B. To analyze and evaluate techniques to identify problems, recommend solutions and prepare responses
 C. To maintain statistical data relating to workload for historical and forecasting analysis
 D. To analyze program accomplishments and determine the appropriate financial and manpower resources needed
 E. To plan, prepare and analyze various administrative management and financial reports
 F. None of the above
9. Which response best describes your highest level of experience interpreting and evaluating information?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
10. Choose the answer that best describes your highest level of experience assuring that a training course complements other courses in a program.
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
11. Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience working in a team environment.
 A. I have worked in small, close-knit groups having common interests and goals, contributed to the accomplishments of assigned tasks.
 B. I have worked in large, complex groups where my facilitation skills contributed directly to successful completion of assigned tasks.
 C. I have lead small, close-knit groups where I ensured that everyone in the group is doing his or her fair share of the work, thereby contributing to successful completion of assigned tasks.
 D. I have lead large, complex groups where my team leadership skills ensured that the work was coordinated sufficiently well to ensure successful and timely completion of assigned tasks.
 E. None of the above.
 F. I have worked in large, complex groups where my responsibilities led directly to the successful completion of assigned tasks.
 G. I have led small, close-knit groups where I ensured that everyone in the group is doing his or her fair share of the work, thereby contributing to successful completion of assigned tasks.
 H. I have led large, complex groups where my team leaders
12. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience setting and achieving team goals?
 A. I have assigned team leaders to projects, set objectives for team leaders, monitored team leader performance, and mentored them as a subject matter expert for this task.
 B. I have performed this task as the sole team leader, fully responsible for the deliverables and performance of a team.
 C. I have performed this task as a co-team leader, partially responsible for the deliverables and performance of a team.
 D. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed this task on the job.
 E. I do not have education, training, or experience related to setting and achieving team goals.
13. Which statements describe your experience working with others within a team environment?
 A. I worked as a team member to accomplish work-related activities.
 B. I fostered commitment and team spirit.
 C. I worked with personnel from other government agencies.
 D. I exercised tact and diplomacy with the public and staff members.
 E. None of the above.
14. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected