Position Title
Inventory Management Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OIT-IMP-12758502-SY Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 7, 2025 to Friday, July 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1.
Are you a current or former Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from DHS?  If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former DHS employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
6. Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes Managing and tracking the distribution of supplies and equipment; Identifying when property is damaged, destroyed, or lost; Conducting audits and reconciling reports against property records; Monitoring the compliance of inventory management controls to ensure the safety, security, and utilization of assets.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above?
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Indicate the extent of your experience regarding the management of excess property (for example, disposals, donations, and transfers).

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. As part of a team, I have had experience assisting in the verification of property descriptions, condition codes, quantity and costs, preparation of transfer requests, and provision of documents to other offices.
 C. I have had experience independently identifying, setting up, and executing property disposals, and have trained others on the process. In addition, I have had experience conducting internal office reviews to assure that rules, guidelines, and policies in the management of excess property were followed.
 D. I have had experience reviewing excess property reports and correcting discrepancies, notifying offices of available property, and transferring property to state agencies for authorized equipment nationwide. I have held ultimate responsibility for retrograde/disposal/excess equipment, Tables of Equipment (TOE), Tables of Distribution and Allowances (TDA), and Common Tables of Allowance.
2. Indicate the extent of your experience in inventory and supply management (that is, requisitioning, documenting, receiving, storing, posting, and tracking) of supplies and property.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had limited experience in performing periodic inventories and record keeping, such as the updating of inventory databases.
 C. I have had experience performing office supply or property inventory activities. I have performed periodic inventories, and internal reviews of inventories, and I have maintained documentation of the issuance of supplies and property.
 D. I have had experience conducting regular and periodic inventories, scheduling inventories, and reconciling database records. I have had responsibility for the ordering, receipt, posting, and payment of vendors for supplies and property.
 E. As part of overall inventory control, I have had experience planning, setting up, and maintaining an inventory record keeping system for a department or organization.
3. Indicate the extent of your knowledge and experience related to using SAP to maintain asset records of equipment and property.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had no experience with SAP, but I have experience with other inventory accountability systems (for example, PIMS, AMIS, Sunflower).
 C. I have had training in SAP (for example, automated work instructions, software manuals, and tutorials), but I have not applied this training on the job.
 D. In addition to taking training in SAP (such as automated work instructions, software manuals, and tutorials), I have had experience entering data and maintaining asset records pertaining to equipment and property.
 E. I have had extensive experience in using SAP to maintain asset records. I have trained others in the use of SAP, and others come to me for advice on using this system.
4. Indicate the extent of your experience using automated inventory systems, to identify and track trends..

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience using automated inventory systems and data processing technology in the completion of my regular job duties.
 C. I have had experience using automated systems and data processing technology to identify and track trends under the direction of a supervisor or other more senior individual.
 D. I have had experience independently using automated systems and data processing technology to identify and track trends, including loss and theft trends.
5. Indicate the extent of your experience coordinating with various directorates and divisions of an organization to identify supply and inventory management needs.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience coordinating with individuals in my work group to identify supply needs or respond to specific supply inquiries.
 C. I have had experience coordinating with directorates and divisions within my organization to identify and manage supply and inventory management needs.
 D. I have had experience coordinating with directorates and divisions of a nationwide organization to identify and manage supply and inventory management needs. I have served as the individual with the primary responsibility for coordinating inventory and supply chain management.
6. Indicate the extent of your experience coordinating with inventory control points (for example, asset Program Management Offices), government entities, and commercial entities concerning major equipment requirements, availability, distribution/redistribution, and acquisition totals.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience assisting others in gathering information from inventory control points concerning major equipment requirements, availability, distribution/redistribution, and acquisition totals.
 C. I have had experience independently coordinating with inventory control points and commercial entities concerning routine equipment requirements, availability, distribution/redistribution, and acquisition totals.
 D. I have had experience independently coordinating with inventory control points, commercial entities, and government entities concerning major equipment requirements, availability, distribution/redistribution, and acquisition totals.
7. Indicate the extent of your experience directing and guiding supply management policy and procedures for materials and equipment.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience serving as a point of contact for inquiries regarding supply management policy and procedures for materials and equipment.
 C. In addition to serving as a point of contact for inquiries for supply management policies and procedures for materials and equipment, I have had experience making recommendations regarding new and existing supply management policies and procedures.
 D. In addition to serving as a point of contact for inquiries above the direct support level regarding supply management policies and procedures for materials and equipment, I have had experience making recommendations regarding new and existing supply management policies and procedures.
8. Do you have experience serving as the Property Team leader of field property book officers (for example, Local Property Coordinators)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Indicate the extent of your experience overseeing the addition and deletion of items from property books.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience personally adding or deleting items from a property book in accordance with the applicable procedures.
 C. In addition to personally adding and deleting items from a property book in accordance with the applicable procedures, I have had experience conducting reviews of the property book to ensure its accuracy.
 D. I have held ultimate responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of a property book, and have had experience overseeing the transfer of responsibility for the property book from one individual (for example, Property Officer/Coordinator) to another.
10. Indicate the extent of your experience overseeing the execution of an organization's equipment policies and procedures from a national headquarters level.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience identifying and tracking lapses in compliance with equipment policies and procedures from a directorate or division level and reporting this information to a more senior individual.
 C. I have had experience ensuring compliance with an organization's equipment policies and procedures from a national headquarters level. I have established metrics for key indicators for compliance and designated corrective actions to be taken in cases of noncompliance.
11. Indicate the extent of your experience providing clarification on inventory management policies and procedures.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience clarifying routine inventory management policies and procedures for others.
 C. I have had extensive experience clarifying routine and complex inventory management policies and procedures. I am considered an expert on my organization's inventory management policies and procedures; individuals throughout the organization consult me due to my expertise in this area.
12. Indicate the extent of your experience explaining and interpreting procedures and instructions for personal property acquisition, usage, and accountability.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have resolved issues and concerns in cases where regulations were in conflict or where regulation guidance was ambiguous.
 C. I have served as an organization's main point of contact for the explanation and interpretation of procedures and instructions for personal property acquisition, usage, and accountability.
13. Indicate the extent of your experience evaluating supply management, property accountability, replacement/repair, and field support for nationwide sustainment efforts.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience assisting with conducting inventories for property accountability and have input the results to the inventory module of Systems Applications and Products (SAP) software or a similar automated system.
 C. I have had experience leading team efforts to create and independently manage inventories for property accountability and have input the results to the inventory module of Systems Applications and Products (SAP) software or a similar automated system.
 D. I am considered an expert in life cycle management and supply chain management principles and practices related to nationwide sustainment efforts.
14. Indicate the extent of your experience identifying new support requirements based on program and policy changes in an inventory management program.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience keeping abreast of program and policy changes and using this information to update my personal handling of inventory management.
 C. I have had experience identifying new support requirements based on program and policy changes in an inventory management program, and communicating these requirements to the affected individuals.
 D. I have had experience identifying new support requirements based on program and policy changes in an inventory management program, forming recommendations, and communicating these requirements to management for decision making.
 E. I have had extensive experience identifying new support requirements based on program and policy changes in an inventory management program, and directing the revision of inventory management policies and procedures accordingly.
15. Indicate the extent of your experience performing studies and analyses of supply chain management, procurement processes, and material distribution operations to evaluate the performance of supply chains.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience assisting others in gathering information to support supply chain studies and analyses.
 C. I have had experience independently performing studies and analyses of supply chain processes, policies, and procedural issues to review delivery and order fulfillment performance, production flexibility, warranty and returns processing costs, inventory and asset turns, and other factors in evaluating the overall effective performance of a supply chain. I have had experience in proposing actions and programs to correct inefficiencies.
 D. In addition to performing studies and analyses of supply chain processes, I have had extensive experience developing and implementing proposals for new or modified processes, policies, procedures, and corrective actions based on the results of studies and analyses of supply chain processes (for example delivery and order fulfillment performance, production flexibility, warranty and returns processing costs, inventory and asset turns).
16. Indicate the extent of your experience determining user needs.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience assisting others in determining user needs by gathering specific information from users.
 C. I have had experience independently determining user needs by interviewing users, clarifying requirements, and anticipating downstream requests.
 D. I have had extensive experience determining user needs through interviews, research, and use projections. I have guided users to a fuller understanding of their needs by applying formal needs assessment processes.
17. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of Federal Management Regulation (FMR).

 A. I have no knowledge of the Federal Management Regulation (FMR).
 B. I am aware of the Federal Management Regulation (FMR) and its impact on supply, procurement, and property disposal practices.
 C. I have applied my knowledge of the Federal Management Regulation (FMR) to inform supply, procurement, and property disposal practices under the guidance of a supervisor or more senior individual.
 D. I have independently applied my knowledge of the Federal Management Regulation (FMR) to inform supply, procurement, and property disposal practices in my organization.
18. indicate your experience interpreting material safety data sheets and properly handling, storing, transporting, and disposing of hazards materials.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience following proper hazardous materials procedures.
 C. I have independently developed hazardous materials programs.
 D. I have extensive experience managing a supply point that included implementing and enforcing hazardous materials safety standards.
19. Indicate the extent of your experience developing hazardous materials response plans.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience participating in hazardous materials response exercises.
 C. I have had experience developing and evaluating hazardous materials response exercises and training.
 D. I have had extensive experience developing, implementing, and evaluating hazardous materials response plans for a warehouse that stored multiple classifications of hazardous materials.
20. Indicate the extent of your experience managing a warehouse operation.

 A. I have had no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had experience managing warehouse operations storing less than 2,500 SKUs/NSNs.
 C. I have had experience managing warehouse operations storing 2,500 to 5,000 SKUs/NSNs.
 D. I have had experience managing warehouse operations storing over 5,000 SKUs/NSNs.
21. Do you have experience with warehouse security operations and physical control to prevent/detect theft, pilferage, and damage?

 A. Yes
 B. No
22. Do you have experience setting warehouse health and safety regulations and standards?

 A. Yes
 B. No
23. Do you have experience with industry standard stock control practices?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected