Position Title
Medical Support Assistant
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
IPJG-26-12812517-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 to Sunday, October 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 315. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


3.
Employees assigned to a medical treatment facility are required to be screened for applicable immunizations or pre-existing immunity based on occupational risk, regardless of job series. This position is subject to screening and update of required immunizations unless exempted for medical or administrative reasons in accordance with Army Regulation 40-562, Chapters 3 and 4. A job offer to an applicant who is not a current employee subject to this requirement will be withdrawn if the candidate refuses to undergo immunization screening. Are you willing to consent to immunization screening and receive missing immunizations or submit required documentation to request exemption?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has a mandatory seasonal influenza vaccination requirement and is subject to annual vaccination. A candidate tentatively selected for appointment to this position will be required to sign a statement consenting to annual seasonal influenza vaccination. A job offer to an applicant who is not a current employee subject to this requirement will be withdrawn if the candidate refuses to agree to undergo seasonal influenza vaccinations for other than medical or religious reasons. Such reasons must be supported by an acceptable statement from a credible, verifiable source. Are you willing to consent to, and receive seasonal influenza vaccinations or submit required documentation to request exemption?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Medical Support Assistant position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Medical Support Assistant at the GS-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of general experience. General experience is progressively responsible clerical, office, or other work that indicates my ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position to be filled, such as, preparing correspondences, scheduling, receiving guests, answering phone calls, and using office automation systems.
 I have successfully completed two years of education above the high school level obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the general experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some education above the high school level but less than required in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of education by 60. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙