Position Title
Recreation Therapist
Agency
Armed Forces Retirement Home
Announcement Number
25-AFRH-12785382-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Friday, September 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
Assessment 1
1. Applicants must meet one of the following educational requirements:

Bachelors or graduate/higher level degree in therapeutic recreation, art therapy, drama therapy, dance therapy, or music therapy;

OR

Bachelors or graduate/higher level degree in a related field involving therapeutic emphasis or concentration that included at least 36 semester hours in therapeutic courses as described below:

18 semester hours of therapeutic recreation courses; and
18 semester hours that include a combination of abnormal psychology, physiology, human anatomy and development, disabilities and general recreation
 A. I have a bachelors or graduate/higher level degree in therapeutic recreation, art therapy, drama therapy, dance therapy, or music therapy.
 B. I have a bachelors or graduate/higher level degree in a related field involving therapeutic emphasis or concentration that included at least 36 semester hours in therapeutic courses.
 C. None of the above
Specialized experience includes one year of specialized experience at the GS-09 level or equivalent that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. Specialized experience includes:

- Experience in evaluating the history, interest, aptitude, and skills of patients, and using such findings to develop and implement therapy activities for individual patients; AND
- Developing therapeutic recreation treatment plans for patients suffering from physical, emotional, and/or social dysfunctions relating to leisure; AND
- Revising treatment plans based upon changes in the intervention, diagnosis, and patient responses; planning and conducting adaptive recreational activities.

OR

You may qualify on education alone with 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or equivalent doctoral degree.

OR

Combinations of successfully completed graduate level education and specialized experience may be used to meet total experience requirements. Only graduate level education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience.

NOTE: Experience in activities or programs that did not require application of a knowledge of the concepts, principles, and practices of recreation therapy or one of the creative arts therapy specializations covered by this standard, and that did not involve the use of therapeutic approaches to maintain the physical and/or mental health or to achieve the physical and/or mental rehabilitation of persons, (e.g., Outdoor Recreation Specialist, Commercial Recreation Leader, Vocational Counselor, or other diversionary-type recreation specialist positions) is not qualifying for this series.
2. Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement. Carefully review your application and ensure that your response is supported by your resume.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level as described above.
 B. I have three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a PhD. in a related field. Attach copy of transcript or list of college courses designating semester or quarter hours earned to ensure proper credit. Education obtained in foreign colleges or universities will only be credited if that education is comparable to that of the U.S. (You must provide proof of comparability at the time of application).
 C. I have a PhD. in a related field. Attach copy of transcript or list of college courses designating semester or quarter hours earned to ensure proper credit. Education obtained in foreign colleges or universities will only be credited if that education is comparable to that of the U.S. (You must provide proof of comparability at the time of application)
 D. I have a combination of the education and specialized experience described that has equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the work. Attach copy of transcript or list of college courses designating semester or quarter hours earned to ensure proper credit. Education obtained in foreign colleges or universities will only be credited if that education is comparable to that of the U.S. (You must provide proof of comparability at the time of application).
 E. I have none of the above.
If you are a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist or Board Certified Music Therapist, please submit a copy of your certification along with your application package.
3. Which of the following statements best describe your experience developing, implementing and evaluating a recreation treatment program?
 A. I am/have been independently responsible for developing, implementing and evaluating recreation treatment plans.
 B. I have developed and implemented a recreation treatment plan with little involvement in the evaluation of the plans.
 C. I have implemented and carried out a recreation treatment plan but have not evaluated its effectiveness.
 D. None of the above.
4. Which of the listed categories of residents/ patients have you provided recreation therapy to? (Select all that apply)
 A. Physical Impairment.
 B. Psychiatric impairment.
 C. Long Term Care Residents.
 D. Assisted living residents.
 E. Neurological and Cognitive Impairments.
 F. None of the above.
5. Select all of the recreation therapy duties you have performed.
 A. Assembled Resident Histories.
 B. Interpret medical record information.
 C. Conduct mental and physical assessments of patient.
 D. Develop and implement a treatment plan.
 E. Develop therapeutic programs for various types of disabilities.
 F. Evaluate effectiveness of treatment plans.
 G. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6. Have you collaborated with other health care staff to develop and implement a total health care treatment plan for patients?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. From the list below, please select all of the choices that describe your experience influencing and motivating patients .
 A. I have educated patients on the benefits of recreation/music therapy plans.
 B. I have encouraged patients to participate in recreation/music therapy activities.
 C. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected