Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (MRI)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12784814-25-BT Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) position with the VA. Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your level of education and experience that demonstrates you meet the basic requirements for this position. Please provide an answer to each question. Answering "no" or failing to respond to any of the below questions will result in an ineligible rating.
LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Proficiency. Diagnostic Radiologic Technologists (DRT) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 38 U.S.C. 7407(d). Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 A. Yes
 B. No
EDUCATION:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. Education. Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school Diagnostic Radiologic Technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE)? NOTE: Assignment to the clinical program director requires meeting JRCERT minimum educational standards as noted in the assignment description.

 A. Yes
 B. No
CERTIFICATION:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Certification. All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). (NOTE: Exception for Non-Certified, Entry Level Candidates. Non-certified DRTs who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for ARRT (R) certification may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate DRT under the authority of 38 U.S.C.? 7405(c)(2)(B). The appointing official may waive the requirement of certification for a period not to exceed two years for a DRT that provides care under the supervision of a certified DRT at or above the full performance level. This exception only applies at the GS-5 entry level technician. For grade levels above the entry level, the candidate must be certified. Temporary appointments of non-certified DRTs may not be extended beyond two years or converted to a new temporary appointment.)

Do you meet this requirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.
GRADE DETERMINATION:
4. To qualify at the GS-9 level: Applicants must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level. In addition to the experience, applicants must demonstrate the following KSA's:
Ability to balance the needs of patients and staff while still performing complex scans and procedures.
Knowledge of techniques for gathering relevant information from the medical record, significant others, and health care providers.
Ability to assess factors that may contraindicate the procedure.
Knowledge of basic first aid and basic life support practices related to radiography.
Knowledge of physical assessment, aseptic techniques, intravenous methods and techniques and universal precautions.
Knowledge of pre-procedural, procedural, and post-procedural care of patients.

 A. I have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level and can demonstrate the above mentioned KSA's.
 B. I do not have the experience described above.
ADVANCED CERTIFICATION:
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Do you possess advanced certification by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected