Position Title
Health Technician (Audiology)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12812064-26-QMD Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 7, 2025 to Friday, October 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Health Technician (Audiology) position with the VA. To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as the additional grade-level qualification requirements. Please provide an answer to each question. Answering "no" or failing to respond to any of the below questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
English Language Proficiency. Health Technician (Audiology) must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a. Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and/or Education Requirement: Do you possess at least six months of experience completing adjustments to hearing aid settings as outlined in the audiologist's plan of care and preparing patients for advanced diagnostic procedures or similar duties that demonstrates the ability to perform the work or provide an understanding of the work; OR have successfully completed two academic years above high school leading to an associate degree or a bachelor's degree with at least 12 semester hours in courses related to the position; OR have the equivalent combination of experience and education?
 I possess six (6) months of experience that demonstrates my ability to perform the duties of this position.
 I have successfully completed 2 academic years above high school leading to an associate's degree. (NOTE: transcripts MUST be uploaded if basing qualifications on education. Unofficial transcripts are acceptable but must show your name and the name of the institution.)
 I possess a bachelor's degree with at least 12 semester hours in courses related to the position. (NOTE: transcripts MUST be uploaded if basing qualifications on education. Unofficial transcripts are acceptable but must show your name and the name of the institution.)
 I possess a combination of the education and experience described above.
 None of the above apply to me.


3.
Certification. Certification by the Council for Accreditation in Occupational Hearing Conservation (CAOHC) as a Certified Occupational Hearing Conservationist (COHC) is required for the Health Technician (Audiology) GS-08 position. Do you possess the required certification?

 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Experience Health Technician (Audiology) GS-08: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, do you possess one year of progressive experience and/or experience as a Health Technician (Audiology) comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-07) and can demonstrate the below KSAs?
Ability to conduct employee hearing conservation education and training.
Knowledge of the hearing conservation program requirements to manage records and files.
Ability to perform pure tone air conduction testing.
Ability to provide audiologic technical support to the employee hearing conservation program.
Ability to identify a threshold shift and make appropriate referrals for further testing when indicated.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙