Position Title
Program Manager
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
IEAC-IMP-12806304-EEE Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 to Monday, October 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.


1.
Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 Yes
 No


3.
Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of GS-14?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Federal employees who competed for and currently hold, or have previously held, a permanent position of GS-14 (or equivalent) or higher, may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-11 position with promotion potential to the GS-13.  The progression is GS-11, GS-12, and GS-13.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-14 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You previously held a GS-14 position on a permanent basis.  GS-14 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


2.
There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.


3.
If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.


4.
If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.


5.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


6.
This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes directly supporting or managing programs related to workforce integrity, relations, or accountability; performing work in the fields of employee relations, equal employment opportunity, or internal workforce investigations or integrity; and conducting reviews, interviews, referrals related to employee complaints, conduct, discrimination, or compliance.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.


1.
Indicate the extent of your experience in planning and preparing schedules.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have had limited experience in planning or preparing schedules either for a small team or for brief periods of time.
 I have planned and scheduled the day-to-day work of my immediate work unit on a continuous basis.
 I have performed mid- to long-range (that is, quarterly or annual) planning and scheduling of work for my immediate work unit when there were complicating factors (for example, conflicting priorities, work involving multiple disciplines).
 I have directed and overseen the planning and scheduling of work for a multi-unit organization. I have established criteria and priorities and reviewed, amended, and consolidated the plans developed by subordinates.


2.
Indicate the extent of your experience in developing plans for a program or an organization.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 Under the close guidance of others, I have developed short-range plans for a program (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 I have independently developed both short- and long-range plans for a program or organization (for example, set timelines, established milestones, identified needed resources).
 I have overseen the development of plans that were broad in scope or were complex, involving multiple entities.


3.
Indicate the extent of your experience in translating goals into action plans.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have participated in a local process/project to develop action items for an action plan that supported established goals for a specific program area.
 I have led a local process/project to develop action items for an action plan that supported established goals for a specific program area.
 I have led a process/project for the conversion of agency goals to an action plan for a primary organizational unit or equivalent.


4.
Indicate the extent of your experience in reviewing work products and accepting, rejecting, or amending work.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have had some experience, gained while serving as a team leader, supervisor, or program manager in reviewing work products of others and accepting, rejecting, or amending their work.
 I have had extensive experience, gained as a team leader, supervisor, or program manager in reviewing work products of others and accepting, rejecting, or amending their work.


5.
Indicate the extent of your experience in improving the efficiency and quality of the work performed.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have made specific changes that have improved my efficiency and the quality of my work.
 I have recommended changes that have been adopted by multiple work units and have improved their efficiency and the quality of their work.
 I have recommended specific changes that have improved my work unit's efficiency and the quality of its work.


6.
Indicate the extent of your experience in monitoring or developing performance measurements to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and/or assist in program administration.

 I have had no experience or training in performing this task.
 I have made recommendations based on my evaluation of performance measurements used to determine the effectiveness of operations and/or program administration.
 I have developed performance measurements that were used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and/or assist in program administration, and I have monitored the use of these measurements.
 I have overseen the development of performance measurements that were used to evaluate the effectiveness of operations and program administration, and I have overseen the evaluation of operations and program administration.


7.
Select the choice which best describes your ability to establish and maintain effective working relations outside of the organization.
 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have provided routine information, resolved simple problems, questions, or complaints, and directed nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints to the appropriate person/office.
 I have maintained relationships with members of the public who have varied requests, assessed their requests, and provided moderately complex information to them. I have resolved fairly complex or nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints.
 I have developed and maintained relationships with interest groups with varied requests, anticipated and assessed their requests, and provided complex information to them. I have resolved complex or nonroutine problems, questions, or complaints.


8.
Indicate the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, determined the accuracy of the data, defined the problem, and identified solutions.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.


9.
Have you independently planned, scheduled, and carried out major processes and projects?

 Yes
 No


10.
Indicate the extent of your experience in handling stressful situations.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have dealt with occasional periods of mild stress as part of my regular job duties.
 As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt on a daily basis with moderate stress (for example, handling heavy workloads, meeting tight deadlines).
 As part of my regular job duties, I have frequently dealt with highly stressful situations (for example, rapidly changing priorities, dealing face-to-face with hostile or violent individuals, handling crisis situations).


11.
Indicate the extent of your experience in responding to Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries/complaints.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have drafted portions of responses for higher-level review on Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries based on my understanding of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies and procedures.
 I have written responses/testimony and represented the organization on Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries based on knowledge of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures.


12.
Indicate the extent of your knowledge of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and directives related to human resources management.

 I have no knowledge of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and directives related to human resources management.
 I have limited knowledge of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and directives related to human resources management.
 I have working knowledge of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and directives related to human resources management.
 I have extensive knowledge of and experience applying/following Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and directives related to human resources management.


13.
Select the choice which best describes your ability to stimulate creative thinking and innovation in others.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have interacted with others on an individual basis seeking new solutions to a problem.
 I have participated in groups or panels that successfully formulated innovative methods to achieve an assigned task.
 I have led a group of employees in developing innovative and improved processes in my field.


14.
Indicate the extent to which you have identified the impact and implications of alternative decisions on your program or organization.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have participated in brainstorming sessions convened to identify the impact of various proposals on a specific issue.
 I have developed and presented written analyses of the predicted impact on the organization at the national level of any of multiple alternative proposals, including justification for a recommended course of action.
 I have led a workgroup charged with determining the most viable option for resolving a matter, and made a formal recommendation to superiors.


15.
Indicate the extent of your experience in developing and interpreting policy on designated programs.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have assisted and provided input to my superiors or subject-matter experts concerning the development of a new policy or the application of a new policy to a specific program.
 I have drafted and/or studied proposals for the implementation of new policies or provided recommendations for the application of policies to a specific program.
 I have independently developed and implemented new policies that impacted a specific program or interpreted the program response to far-reaching policy directives.


16.
Indicate the extent of your experience in motivating, and/or guiding others toward accomplishment of goals.

 I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 I have had limited experience, gained primarily as a team leader, in motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of specific goals/objectives assigned to the team.
 I have had extensive experience, gained as a team leader, or program manager, in motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of goals by monitoring their work and providing guidance, training, and/or direction as needed.


17.
Indicate the extent of your experience in building support for ideas and initiatives with key stakeholders inside and outside the organization.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have had limited experience in building support for ideas and initiatives with key stakeholders inside and outside the organization gained by seeking support for ideas or initiatives under close guidance.
 I have sought support for ideas and initiatives from key internal and external stakeholders with the result that these ideas/initiatives have been included in major recommendations made by others.
 I have analyzed the pros and cons of key ideas/initiatives and clearly elucidated these options for key internal and external stakeholders with the result that the ideas/initiatives were successfully implemented.


18.
Indicate the extent of your experience in supporting and implementing changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have worked with my peers to implement changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure.
 I have disseminated information about changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure to peers and/or subordinates and explained the impact of these changes.
 I have disseminated information about changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure, explained the impact of these changes to internal and external stakeholders, and ensured that the changes were implemented.


19.
Indicate the extent of your experience in reporting to higher-level officials on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to higher-level officials both within and outside my organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 I have given formal briefings to higher-level officials in the organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.


20.
Select the choice which best describes your experience in working in teams to complete a work-related project.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have been a member of a team, tasked with a specific work-related project that successfully met its goals and objectives.
 I have led one or more teams tasked with a complex or challenging work-related project that successfully met its goals and objectives.


21.
Select the choice which best describes your experience in responding to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have adapted to minor or temporary changes affecting my own assignments or work schedule by rescheduling work or refocusing my efforts.
 I have rearranged some priorities and rescheduled a significant amount of work to accommodate changes in resources or goals. I have recommended new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.
 I have rearranged virtually all work priorities and schedules to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks. I have chosen or developed new methods in situations in which established procedures were unavailable or inapplicable.


22.
Select the choice which best describes your ability to negotiate with internal and external groups.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have conferred with others on an individual basis to resolve work-related problems and/or held discussions aimed at persuading others to agree with my viewpoint.
 I have conferred and negotiated with internal groups to facilitate program implementation and/or find mutually acceptable approaches to work-related problems.
 I have successfully conducted negotiations about sensitive, work-related subjects with both internal and external groups.


23.
Indicate the extent of your experience in defusing potentially volatile/difficult situations and providing interested parties with opportunities to voice their concerns.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have had experience in defusing potentially volatile/difficult situations involving one or two individuals.
 I have had experience in defusing potentially volatile/difficult situations involving a group.
 I have had extensive experience in defusing potentially volatile/difficult situations involving multiple groups.


24.
Have you written standard operating procedures (SOPs) or agency policies?

 Yes
 No


25.
Indicate the extent to which you have been involved in public relations activities.
 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have participated in job fairs and college recruitment activities.
 I have presented formal briefings/speeches to the media, Members of Congress, and the general public on varied and controversial or complex issues.
 I have made presentations representing the agency at trade shows, community organizations, or local groups, and/or coordinated the agency's participation in public relations activities.


26.
Select the choice that best describes how you have interacted with others, including all levels of employees and management and external parties (for example, media, Congress, trade community).

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have interacted successfully with others primarily in my own organization on tasks/projects.
 I have interacted successfully with others at various levels both within and external to my work organization to resolve work-related problems by providing pertinent information.
 I have provided interpretation, technical guidance, and direction to the media, congressional staff members, and/or the trade community.


27.
Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate with all levels of managers, staff members, and outside groups.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have communicated with other staff members and managers in the routine performance of my duties.
 I have conducted meetings with and provided training for staff members or outside groups.
 I have presented briefings on program areas to higher-level managers or internal/external organizations or agencies.
 I have represented a program or organization in high level conferences and/or meetings or acted as a liaison to other internal/external organizations or agencies.


28.
Select the choice which best describes your ability to communicate in writing.

 I have had no experience in performing this task.
 I have written responses to requests for information, or I have edited non-technical writing from others.
 I have written policies, procedures, training manuals, and/or other technical materials.
 I have explained in writing the application of laws, regulations, precedents, covering legal actions, or I have written congressional testimony that presented sensitive or controversial information.


29.
Have you written statements or position papers concerning the impact of new or proposed legislation on existing programs and operations?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙