Position Title
CHEMIST
Agency
Food Safety and Inspection Service
Announcement Number
FSIS-25-MCE-12747347-GM Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 to Tuesday, August 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING CAREFULLY. Applicants will be referred to all grade levels at or above the one selected for which they are qualified. Not selecting the lowest grade announced as your Lowest Acceptable Grade could limit your consideration for referral if, after review of your application, resume, and supporting documents, you are deemed not qualified for your selected Lowest Acceptable Grade. Selecting the lowest grade announced as your Lowest Acceptable Grade will not limit your consideration at higher grades.
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
5
7
9
11
12
2. 2-PAGE LIMIT ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - I understand that there is a 2-page limit on resume length. Only the first two pages will be reviewed for qualification determination for resumes longer than two pages. For more information on what to include in your resume, see the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. DOCUMENT UPLOADS - I understand that each document uploaded must be less than 5MB and in one of the following document formats: GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, PDF, TXT, or Word (.DOC or .DOCX). For more information see the "How to Apply" portion of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. How did you learn about this FSIS position? Please select all that apply.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Social Media (such as Facebook, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Job Finder Site (such as Indeed, Monster, etc.)
 D. Job Board from School, College, University, or Alumni Organization (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity, 12Twenty, Other)
 E. Local Billboard
 F. FSIS-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event
 G. School-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event Sponsored by a School, College, University, or Alumni Organization
 H. FSIS Employee
 I. USDA Employee
 J. Friend, Family Member, or non-FSIS or non-USDA Coworker
 K. USAJobs Search
 L. Other
6. Please share any additional details about how you learned about this position, especially if you selected "Other" in the previous question. If nothing to add, enter "N/A".
7. I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager. While your responses will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Basic requirements for all grades:

Applicants who meet the basic requirements described in the individual occupational requirements are fully qualified for the specified entry grade (grade GS-5). Applicants who wish to qualify for positions at higher grade levels (grade GS-7 and above) must also meet the requirements shown under the Professional and Scientific Positions within the U.S. Office of Personnel Management Group Coverage Qualification Standards shown in the table on page IV-A-22, in addition to meeting the basic requirements.

The individual occupational requirements typically provide at least two methods for applicants to meet the basic requirements of the occupations covered by this standard:

Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree that included a major field of study or specific course requirements generally as stated in paragraph A in the individual occupational requirements.
Appropriate combination of education and experience that is typically specified in paragraph B of the individual occupational requirements. The "paragraph B" method generally requires that an applicant possess a core of educational credit, such as described in paragraph A above, plus additional education and/or experience. The method of determining the number of semester hours required to constitute a major field of study is the same as described in paragraph A. 
The quality of the combination of education and experience must be sufficient to demonstrate that the applicant possesses the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform work in the occupation, and is comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a full 4-year course of study with a major in the appropriate field. In addition to courses in the major and related fields, a typical college degree would have included courses that involved analysis, writing, critical thinking, research, etc. These courses would have provided an applicant with skills and abilities sufficient to perform progressively more responsible work in the occupation. Therefore, creditable experience should have demonstrated similarly appropriate skills or abilities needed to perform the work of the occupation.
1. You must meet a basic education requirement to be eligible for the 1320 chemistry series . You can satisfy this requirement with education or a combination of experience and education. The 30 semester hours in chemistry are the core hours for the degree. Select the answer that describes how you meet this requirement.
 A. I have a degree in a physical science, life science, or engineering that included 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by course work in mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience -- course work equivalent to a major as shown in A above, including at least 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. I do not meet this requirement.
2. Select the answer that describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-7 grade. Note that your resume and/or supporting documents (if applicable) must clearly support your response to this question.
 A. I have 1 or more year(s) of full-time work experience equivalent to the specialized experience requirement described in the announcement text.
 B. I have 1 year of graduate-level education or superior academic achievement.
 C. I am not applying for this grade level.
 D. I don't have the required experience or education as described in the announcement text.
3. Select the answer that describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-9 grade. Note that your resume and/or supporting documents (if applicable) must clearly support your response to this question.
 A. I have 1 or more year(s) of full-time work experience equivalent to the specialized experience requirement described in the announcement text.
 B. I have 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree.
 C. I am not applying for this grade level.
 D. I don't have the required experience or education as described in the announcement text.
4. Select the answer that describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-11 grade. Note that your resume and/or supporting documents (if applicable) must clearly support your response to this question.
 A. I have 1 or more year(s) of full-time work experience equivalent to the specialized experience requirement described in the announcement text.
 B. I have 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 C. I am not applying at this grade level.
 D. I don't have the required experience or education as described in the announcement text.
5. Please select the answer that describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-12 grade. Note that your resume and/or supporting documents (if applicable) must clearly support your response to this question.
 A. I have 1 or more year(s) of full-time work experience equivalent to the specialized experience requirement described in the announcement text.
 B. I am not applying for this grade level.
 C. I don't have the required experience as described in the announcement text.
6. Select the response that best describes your experience with operating High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) / Ultra-Performance Liquid Chromatography (UPLC).
 A. I have operational experience and have performed maintenance and troubleshooting on the above instrumentation.
 B. I have operational experience with the above instrumentation.
 C. I worked with the above instrumentation in college.
 D. I have limited experience with the above instrumentation.
 E. I have no experience with the above instrumentation.
7. Select the response that best describes your wet chemistry experience.
 A. Quantitative extractions
 B. Qualitative extractions
 C. Synthesis
 D. None of the above.
8. Select the response that best describes your experience working under a quality management system.
 A. I have been an analyst in an ISO 17025-accredited laboratory.
 B. I have worked under ISO 9000, GLP, GMP, or another similar quality management system.
 C. I have no experience working under a formal quality management system.
9. . Select the response that best describes your experience working with an electronic Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS).
 A. I have independently developed modules and analyses with an electronic LIMS, as well as regularly recorded data and results in an electronic LIMS.
 B. I have assisted with developing modules and analyses with an electronic LIMS, as well as regularly recorded data and results in an electronic LIMS.
 C. I have regularly recorded data and results in an electronic LIMS.
 D. I have no experience working with an electronic LIMS.
10. Select all of the responses that represent the matrices from which you have extracted analytes as a regular part of your full-time duties.
 A. Fat, liver, kidney, or muscle.
 B. Food, beverages, or biological matrices such as serum, vegetables, etc.
 C. Environmental matrices such as water, air, or soil.
 D. None of the above.
11. The person in this position must work effectively in an environment where critical deadlines must be me while maintaining high data quality. Select the response that best describes your experience meeting critical deadlines while maintaining high data quality.
 A. Experience working in a high-throughput regulatory or production environment where deadlines are critical, and issues must be immediately troubleshot to prioritize customer needs.
 B. Experience working in an organization where assignments are more flexible and allows for planning, time management, and quality work production.
 C. None of the above.
12. I have regularly performed analyses with the following types of mass spectrometry. Select all that apply.
 A. Triple quadrupole (MS/MS)
 B. Single quadrupole (MSD)
 C. High Resolution (TOF, OrbiTrap, etc.)
 D. None of the above.
13. Select the response that best describes your experience using Microsoft Excel for scientific and statistical applications.
 A. I am an advanced user, comfortable with all items listed in B, plus programming macros and conditional formatting.
 B. I am an adept user and have independently created complex spreadsheets with calculations and statistics; sorted data; formatted data tables by merging cells, freezing cells, wrapping text, auto-fitting width and height, and formatting borders; formatted text with color, size, and font; and graphed data including best fit lines.
 C. I have created simple spreadsheets to perform basic arithmetic, formatted data tables, and have graphed, charted, or plotted data.
 D. I have entered data into existing spreadsheets or have created data tables.
 E. I have less than the above levels of expertise.
14. Select the response that best describes your familiarity with liquid chromatography.
 A. I have independently performed troubleshooting, repair, cleaning, and maintenance of this instrument as a regular part of my duties, without the need of a service contract.
 B. I have performed troubleshooting, repair, cleaning, and maintenance of this instrument as a regular part of my duties, consulting with the vendor's technical support and service engineers.
 C. I have performed initial troubleshooting and repair, and simple routine cleaning and maintenance, as a regular part of my duties, alerting others of more involved problems for follow-up.
 D. I do not have any of the above levels of expertise on this instrument.
15. Select the response that best describes your familiarity with gas chromatography.
 A. I have independently performed troubleshooting, repair, cleaning, and maintenance of this instrument as a regular part of my duties, without the need of a service contract.
 B. I have performed troubleshooting, repair, cleaning, and maintenance of this instrument as a regular part of my duties, consulting with the vendor's technical support and service engineers.
 C. I have performed initial troubleshooting and repair, and simple routine cleaning and maintenance, as a regular part of my duties, alerting others of more involved problems for follow-up.
 D. I do not have any of the above levels of expertise on this instrument.
16. Select the response that best describes your familiarity with mass spectrometry.
 A. I have independently performed troubleshooting, repair, cleaning, and maintenance of this instrument as a regular part of my duties, without the need of a service contract.
 B. I have performed troubleshooting, repair, cleaning, and maintenance of this instrument as a regular part of my duties, consulting with the vendor's technical support and service engineers.
 C. I have performed initial troubleshooting and repair, and simple routine cleaning and maintenance, as a regular part of my duties, alerting others of more involved problems for follow-up.
 D. I do not have any of the above levels of expertise on this instrument.
17. I have regularly used mass spectrometry data-processing software to analyze data from the following manufacturers as a regular part of my full-time duties. Select all that apply.
 A. Sciex
 B. Waters
 C. Agilent
 D. Thermo
 E. None of the above.
18. The person in this position must be able to effectively plan, organize, and prioritize laboratory work and duties. Select the response that best represents your experience.
 A. I have no experience with laboratory work and duties.
 B. I have performed laboratory work and duties that were planned, organized, and prioritized by a supervisor or senior employee.
 C. I have assisted planning, organizing, and prioritizing my laboratory work duties with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as for assistance in performing this task.
19. The person in this position must be able to work as part of a team of cross-trained individuals, assisting others when needed, asking for help or clarification, and being flexible with tasks. Select the response that best represents your experience.
 A. I have not had training or experience working in a team of cross-trained individuals.
 B. I have had training on working in a team of cross-trained individuals.
 C. I have interacted with a team of cross-trained individuals but have not worked on a team myself.
 D. I have worked on a team of cross-trained individuals as part of a short-term project.
 E. I have worked on a team of cross-trained individuals as a regular part of my job, including working on teams across multiple disciplines and long-term projects.
 F. I have led teams of cross-trained individuals as a regular part of my job, including teams across multiple disciplines and long-term projects.
20. The person in this position must exhibit attention to detail when performing wet chemistry techniques. Select the response that best represents your experience.
 A. I have not had experience with wet chemistry techniques.
 B. I have performed wet chemistry techniques requiring close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee to ensure adequate attention to detail.
 C. I have demonstrated attention to detail while independently performing wet chemistry techniques without requiring assistance from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have exceptional attention to detail while performing wet chemistry techniques and have trained, assisted, or supervised others on this.
21. The person in this position must exhibit attention to detail when performing instrument analysis. Select the response that best represents your experience.
 A. I have not had experience with instrument analysis.
 B. I have performed instrument analysis requiring close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee to ensure adequate attention to detail.
 C. I have demonstrated attention to detail while independently performing instrument analysis with no assistance or minimal data review from a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have exceptional attention to detail while performing instrument analysis and have reviewed data and/or trained/supervised others on this.
22. Which of the following pieces of laboratory equipment have you used regularly? Select all that apply.
 A. Pipet
 B. Centrifuge
 C. pH meter
 D. Analytical balance
 E. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected