Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (Electroencephalography)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
OCA-FY25-0649-MIT Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 10, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Instrument Technician (Electroencephalography) position with the VA. The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about, basic requirements, minimum qualifications, and knowledge, skills and abilities related to this position. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers. You may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. English Language Proficiency: Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. GS-6 Experience: Do you have at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower GS-5 grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the position to be filled?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. GS-6 KSAs: Can you demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities?

1. Knowledge of basic medical terminology, neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, and EEG interpretation.
2. Ability to position patients for the examination or treatment including using standard alternate positions for patient with common physical disabilities.
3. Ability to operate the appropriate EEG equipment to administer routine, standardized diagnostic or treatment procedures.
4. Knowledge of normal and abnormal results to recognize and report obvious abnormalities during procedures.
5. Knowledge of universal precautions and basic sterilization methods to clean instruments to prevent the spread of infectious diseases.
6. Knowledge of EEG and peripheral equipment to conduct routine maintenance and adjustment checks.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. GS-7 Experience: Do you have at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower GS-6 grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the position to be filled?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. GS-7 KSAs: Can you demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities?

1. Ability to perform more complex electroencephalography studies such as evoked potential (visual, auditory, somatosensory) and transcranial Doppler studies.
2. Knowledge of medication effects related to electroencephalography studies and clinical situations requiring medication.
3. Knowledge of life threatening or medically emergent testing or patient situations.
4. Ability to recognize artifacts (patient or environmental) and document, eliminate, or take proper measures to monitor the artifact.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. GS-08 MIT (Electroencephalography) (Full Performance Level)

Experience. At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled. This would be experience which provided knowledge of the more complex procedures, the pharma- cology related to this occupation, and knowledge of related acute disorders and diseases and their effects on organs and methods of treatment. 

Do you meet the GS-08 experience as listed above?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. GS-08  In addition to the experience requirement listed above, candidates must demonstrate the following knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs):

1. Ability to interpret testing data to evaluate critical information for surgeons and other medical staff during testing procedures.
2. Knowledge of anatomy and physiology of the nervous system and the ability to understand the relationship of EEG and evoked potential testing in detecting states of disease and health.
3. Knowledge of behavior assessment during seizure attacks in order to insure adequacy of recordings during seizure discharges.
4. Knowledge of a variety of advanced EEG equipment and peripheral equipment such as equipment for brain mapping, video EEG telemetry systems with seizure detection computers, and spike analysis software.
5. Knowledge of anticonvulsant medications and their effects on the EEG as well as other frequently used pharmaceuticals.
6. Ability to adapt neurodiagnostic devices, parameters, and procedures to complex, unusual, and often critical situations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected