Position Title
Information Technology Specialist (Network)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-JD-12768410-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 22, 2025 to Thursday, July 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand I am subject to completion of a pre-employment drug test (including marijuana). A tentative offer of employment will be rescinded if you fail to report to the drug test appointment or fail the test. You will be subject to random testing.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire. If after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Grade 13: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-12 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
3. Select the best response that describes your experience maintaining various IT Phone systems or instruments (i.e., Analog, Digital, VoIP, TSG VoIP, vIPer (secure), Satellite, and Fax/Modem).
 A. I have no education, experience, or training maintaining various IT Phone systems or instruments (i.e., Analog, Digital, VoIP, TSG VoIP, vIPer (secure), Satellite, and Fax/Modem).
 B. I have had education or training maintaining various IT Phone systems or instruments (i.e., Analog, Digital, VoIP, TSG VoIP, vIPer (secure), Satellite, and Fax/Modem) but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have maintained various IT Phone systems or instruments (i.e., Analog, Digital, VoIP, TSG VoIP, vIPer (secure), Satellite, and Fax/Modem) and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have maintained various IT Phone systems or instruments (i.e., Analog, Digital, VoIP, TSG VoIP, vIPer (secure), Satellite, and Fax/Modem) independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on maintaining various IT Phone systems or instruments (i.e., Analog, Digital, VoIP, TSG VoIP, vIPer (secure), Satellite, and Fax/Modem).
4. Select the best response that describes your experience installing, programming, troubleshooting, repairing and maintaining uninterruptible power supplies.

 A. I have no education, experience, or training installing, programming, troubleshooting, repairing and maintaining uninterruptible power supplies.
 B. I have had education or training installing, programming, troubleshooting, repairing and maintaining uninterruptible power supplies but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have installed, programmed, troubleshot, repaired and maintained uninterruptible power supplies and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have installed, programmed, troubleshot, repaired and maintained uninterruptible power supplies independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on installing, programming, troubleshooting, repairing and maintaining uninterruptible power supplies.
5. Select the best response that describes your experience installing, and testing of voice and data cabling infrastructure.
 A. I have no education, experience, or training installing, and testing of voice and data cabling infrastructure.
 B. I have had education or training installing, and testing of voice and data cabling infrastructure but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have installed and tested voice and data cabling infrastructure and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have installed and tested voice and data cabling infrastructure independently without by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on installing, and testing of voice and data cabling infrastructure.
6. Select the best response that describes your experience using various testing equipment (e.g., Digital multimeter, Fiber-optic OTDR, Copper OTDR, Spectrum Analyzer, T-BERD, and Network Link Runner).
 A. I have no education, experience, or training using various testing equipment (e.g., Digital multimeter, Fiber-optic OTDR, Copper OTDR, Spectrum Analyzer, T-BERD, and Network Link Runner).
 B. I have had education or training using various testing equipment (e.g., Digital multimeter, Fiber-optic OTDR, Copper OTDR, Spectrum Analyzer, T-BERD, and Network Link Runner).
 C. I have used various testing equipment (e.g., Digital multimeter, Fiber-optic OTDR, Copper OTDR, Spectrum Analyzer, T-BERD, and Network Link Runner) and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have used various testing equipment (e.g., Digital multimeter, Fiber-optic OTDR, Copper OTDR, Spectrum Analyzer, T-BERD, and Network Link Runner) independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on using various testing equipment (e.g., Digital multimeter, Fiber-optic OTDR, Copper OTDR, Spectrum Analyzer, T-BERD, and Network Link Runner).
7.

Select the best response that describes your experience installing and programming various equipment (e.g., Cisco Switches, Cisco Router, Avaya G450 Gateways, Avaya G650 Gateways, Fujitsu 9500 OTS Node, Fujitsu 4100 OTS Node, Fujitsu CDS Node, Motorola APX portable radio, Motorola APX mobile radio, Motorola GTR 8000 repeater).

 A. I have no education, experience, or training installing and programming various equipment (e.g., Cisco Switches, Cisco Router, Avaya G450 Gateways, Avaya G650 Gateways, Fujitsu 9500 OTS Node, Fujitsu 4100 OTS Node, Fujitsu CDS Node, Motorola APX portable radio, Motorola APX mobile radio, Motorola GTR 8000 repeater).
 B. I have had education or training installing and programming various equipment (e.g., Cisco Switches, Cisco Router, Avaya G450 Gateways, Avaya G650 Gateways, Fujitsu 9500 OTS Node, Fujitsu 4100 OTS Node, Fujitsu CDS Node, Motorola APX portable radio, Motorola APX mobile radio, Motorola GTR 8000 repeater) but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have installed and programmed various equipment (e.g., Cisco Switches, Cisco Router, Avaya G450 Gateways, Avaya G650 Gateways, Fujitsu 9500 OTS Node, Fujitsu 4100 OTS Node, Fujitsu CDS Node, Motorola APX portable radio, Motorola APX mobile radio, Motorola GTR 8000 repeater) and was closely monitored by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have installed and programmed various equipment (e.g., Cisco Switches, Cisco Router, Avaya G450 Gateways, Avaya G650 Gateways, Fujitsu 9500 OTS Node, Fujitsu 4100 OTS Node, Fujitsu CDS Node, Motorola APX portable radio, Motorola APX mobile radio, Motorola GTR 8000 repeater) independently without by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on installing and programming various equipment (e.g., Cisco Switches, Cisco Router, Avaya G450 Gateways, Avaya G650 Gateways, Fujitsu 9500 OTS Node, Fujitsu 4100 OTS Node, Fujitsu CDS Node, Motorola APX portable radio, Motorola APX mobile radio, Motorola GTR 8000 repeater).
8. Select the best response that describes your experience communicating with individuals and organizations to support IT technologies for network infrastructure.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience communicating with individuals and organizations to support IT technologies for network infrastructure.
 B. I have had education or training communicating with individuals and organizations to support IT technologies for network infrastructure.
 C. I have communicated with individuals and organizations to support IT technologies for network infrastructure and was monitored closely by a supervisor or a senior employee.
 D. I have communicated with individuals and organizations to support IT technologies for network infrastructure independently without review by a supervisor or a senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on communicating with individuals and organizations to support IT technologies for network infrastructure.
9. Select the best response that describes your experience communicating with customers to prepare acquisition for network IT systems.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience communicating with customers to prepare acquisition for network IT systems.
 B. I have had education or training communicating with customers to prepare acquisition for network IT systems but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have communicated with customers to prepare acquisition for network IT systems and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have communicated with customers to prepare acquisition for network IT systems independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on communicating with customers to prepare acquisition for network IT systems.
10. Select all responses that best describe how you have communicated with others on requirements for IT system network infrastructure systems.
 A. I have prepared written material for briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 B. I have used analysis to prepare written reports, memoranda, and/or correspondence for signature by senior officials.
 C. I have written standard operating procedures to explain processes for IT system network programs.
 D. I have served as a liaison between governmental and/or commercial service providers for resolution of IT system network infrastructure system errors or issues.
 E. None of the above.
11. Select the best response that describes your experience representing a department or groups of people to provide IT services and support.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience representing a department or groups of people to provide IT services and support.
 B. I have had education or training representing a department or groups of people to provide IT services and support but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have represented a department or groups of people to provide IT services and support and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have represented a department or groups of people to provide IT services and support independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on representing a department or groups of people to provide IT services and support.
12. Select the best response that describes your experience developing alternative recommendations for customers IT equipment and services.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience developing alternative recommendations for customers IT equipment and services.
 B. I have had education or training developing alternative recommendations for customers IT equipment and services. but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have developed alternative recommendations for customers IT equipment and services and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have developed alternative recommendations for customers IT equipment and services independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on developing alternative recommendations for customers IT equipment and services.
13. Select the best response that describes your experience supporting customers on standard operating procedures for IT equipment and services and providing solutions to technical challenges.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience supporting customers on standard operating procedures for IT equipment and services and providing solutions to technical challenges.
 B. I have had education or training supporting customers on standard operating procedures for IT equipment and services and providing solutions to technical challenges but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have supported customers on standard operating procedures for IT equipment and services and providing solutions to technical challenges and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have supported customers on standard operating procedures for IT equipment and services and providing solutions to technical challenges independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on supporting customers on standard operating procedures for IT equipment and services and providing solutions to technical challenges.
14. Select the best response that describes your experience supporting customers by evaluating and modifying IT equipment and services to improve performance issues.
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience supporting customers by evaluating and modifying IT equipment and services to improve performance issues.
 B. I have had education or training supporting customers by evaluating and modifying IT equipment and services to improve performance issues but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have supported customers by evaluating and modifying IT equipment and services to improve performance issues and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have supported customers by evaluating and modifying IT equipment and services to improve performance issues independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on supporting customers by evaluating and modifying IT equipment and services to improve performance issues.
15. Select the best response that describes your experience working with a team on communication systems and/or networks.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience working with a team on communication systems and/or networks.
 B. I have had education or training working with a team on communication systems and/or networks but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have worked with a team on communication systems and/or networks and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have worked with a team on communication systems and/or networks independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on working with a team on communication systems and/or networks.
16. Select the best response that describes your experience developing collaborative relationships for IT equipment and services.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience developing collaborative relationships for IT equipment and services.
 B. I have had education or training developing collaborative relationships for IT equipment and services. but have not performed it on the job.
 C. I have developed collaborative relationships for IT equipment and services and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have developed collaborative relationships for IT equipment and services independently without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others on developing collaborative relationships for IT equipment and services.
17. Select all responses that best describe how you have worked on system installation project teams.
 A. I have attending meetings for IT system installation projects.
 B. I have gathered requirements for IT project plans as part of a team.
 C. I have developed IT project procurement documents (e.g., cost estimates, cost benefits analysis, alternatives, etc.) as part of a team.
 D. I have participated as a Subject Matter Expert on IT system plan development as part of a team.
 E. I have participated as a Team Leader for system installation projects.
 F. None of the above.
18. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected