Position Title
Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (Low Vision Therapist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12808527-26-CT Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 2, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (Low Vision Therapist) position with the VA Capitol Martinsburg Medical Center. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT): VHA HPTs pending the completion of education or certification/licensure requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met. NOTE: This applies to current/past/upcoming VHA HPTs only. An HPT is an individual appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experiences to satisfy program or degree requirements or receiving VA Health Professional Scholarship Program. HPTs can be either VA-paid or Without Compensation (WOC)


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

Candidates will not be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in direct patient-care capacity in VHA who are not proficient in spoken and written English.
 Yes
 No


Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (Low Vision Therapist) Basic Qualification Requirements


2.
Education.
(1) The individual must have earned: 
(a) A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, closely related program in rehabilitation. special education for the visually impaired, family and consumer science education, or technology and industrial arts education. OR 
(b) A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (without a major field of study as outlined in (1)(a) above) that included, or was supplemented by, at least one of the following: 
At least 30 semester hours of directly related, upper level undergraduate courses (e.g., at least 200-course level or higher, or as identified by the college or university).
One full year of directly related graduate level coursework (typically at least 15-18 semester hours)
A certificate from an accredited college or university in the core curriculum in orientation and mobility, vision rehabilitation therapy, assistive technology for blind and visually impaired individuals, or low vision therapy and a directly related practicum/internship in the occupation, either included in the degree or post-degree.
Foreign Graduates must have proof of a minimum of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent), as verified through an independent credential evaluation company), with a specialization in blind rehabilitation.
Do you meet one of the education requirements as described above?
 Yes, I meet this requirement.
 Yes, I am a past, current, upcoming Veterans Health Administration Health Professional Trainee (HPT) graduate: I have received an advanced degree from an accredited program; or I am on track to complete an advanced degree from an accredited program by the time of hire/appointment.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


2a.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your master's and/or doctoral degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


3.
Certification. Required at the GS-11 grade level and above.

(1) Applicants must possess at least one active, current, full and unrestricted certification to be eligible for appointment. Certification must be granted by the Academy for Certification of Vision Rehabilitation & Education Professionals (ACVREP), or another equivalent, closely related professional credential in special education or rehabilitation.

NOTE: The ACVREP administers four certification programs: Low Vision Therapy, Orientation and Mobility, Assistive Technology Instruction and Vision Rehabilitation Therapy. They may then use the designation for the certification they hold (as listed in subparagraph (2)) below:

(2) BRS who provide the following service must obtain certification granted by ACVREP as follows: 
(a) Orientation and mobility training - Certified Orientation and Mobility Specialists (COMS®).
(b) Communication and daily living therapy - Certified Vision Rehabilitation Therapists (CVRT®).
(c) Low vision therapy - Certified Low Vision Therapists (CLVT®)
(d) Assistive Technology - Certified Assistive Technology Instructional Specialists (CATIS®)

Do you meet the certification requirements as described above?
 Yes, I meet this requirement.
 Yes, I am a past, current, upcoming Veterans Health Administration Health Professional Trainee (HPT) graduate: I will meet this requirement under the Health Professional Trainee (HPT) program by the time of hire/appointment.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


Grade Level Requirements- Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


4.
Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (Low Vision Therapist), GS-11 (Full Performance Level)
Experience. In addition to meeting the basic requirements, completion of one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade, 

OR

Education. Three years or progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Doctoral Degree; or Doctoral Degree in Blind Rehabilitation or a directly related field. 

Certification. Certification is required at this grade level and above. Staff BRS candidates must meet the certification requirements as described above. BRS at the GS-11 grade level must have at least one certification from ACVREP or a related, equivalent, professional certification. For Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (Low Vision Therapist), the applicant must hold the following certification: Low vision therapy - Certified Low Vision Therapists (CLVT®).

GS-9 Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). 
Knowledge of policies and procedures of the blind/vision rehabilitation service.
Knowledge of administration and interpretation of assessments and evaluations in blind/vision rehabilitation.
Ability to develop a basic written blind/vision rehabilitation plan from assessment results and develop more complex plans with consultation from supervisor.
Skill in instructing [Veterans] and families in a meaningful rehabilitation program and applying blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic techniques.
Ability to recommend appropriate blind/vision prosthetic devices for Veterans within the scope of practice.
Ability to serve as team coordinator for assigned Veterans during their rehabilitation programs.
GS-11 Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to meeting the KSAs described at the GS-9 grade level above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge and understanding of highly specialized complex evaluations and diagnostic tests and procedures of blind/vision rehabilitation.
Ability to properly assess Veterans having diverse and multiple disabilities to make recommendations for blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic interventions.
Skill in writing a blind/vision rehabilitation plan that includes evaluation information from multiple disciplines with observable, measurable goals that identifies specific outcomes. 
Skill in instructional methods and learning principles. 
Ability to employ interventions and unusual motivational techniques and coordinate treatment with other professionals to achieve outcomes of the rehabilitation plan. 
Ability to recommend appropriate blind/vision rehabilitation prosthetic devices for Veterans within scope of practice, making adaptations and modifications as required.

Assignments. This is the full performance level for BRSs who are not VIST Coordinators. Assignments at this grade level include the following:
(a) Staff BRS. In addition to providing services to Veterans described at the GS-9 grade level, individuals at this level have duties that typically include the following: serving as a consultant to blind/low rehabilitation and other medical center staff in evaluating and treating Veterans in the specialty area; serving as a mentor to other therapists who are evaluating and treating Veterans in the content specialty or program area; serving as internship supervisor to students who are completing their supervised practice; and providing in-service and clinical training programs in the content specialty or program area.
(b) BRS (Sole Practice). Individuals in this assignment may serve as the only BRS at a medical center or an outpatient clinic and are responsible for independent decision-making and independent care. Individuals in this assignment service as a member of or as consultant to a specialty care team, and provide in-service and clinical training programs in the content specialty or program area.

Do you meet the above requirements to qualify for the GS-11 Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (Low Vision Therapist) position? (Note: Applicant must demonstrate above requirements in their application with supporting documentation.)
 Yes, I meet this requirement.
 Yes, I am a past, current, upcoming Veterans Health Administration Health Professional Trainee (HPT) graduate: I will meet this requirement under the Health Professional Trainee (HPT) program by the time of hire/appointment.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙