Position Title
NUCLEAR ENGINEER
Agency
U.S. Pacific Fleet
Announcement Number
ST-12520021-24-DG Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, August 22, 2024 to Thursday, August 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you currently employed as a permanent competitive service employee in the ORG Code within the Command/UIC listed in the 'This job is open to' section at the top of the job opportunity announcement?

If you are:
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 will show the UIC number in block 41 (e.g., "UIC:XXXXX) AND
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 will show the ORG number in block 42 (e.g., "ORG:XXXXX) AND
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 will reflect career or career-conditional: Tenure 1 or 2 in box 24 AND
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 must reflect your status in the competitive service: Position Occupied is 1 in box 34 (unless you are on a permanent VRA appointment then it will show a 2 in box 34).

If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent SF-50 showing you are employed at this command in the competitive service AND the SF-50 reflecting the highest grade held if not reflected on your most recent SF-50. Failure to submit this documentation with your application will result in a rating of ineligible. If you are serving on an excepted service veterans recruitment appointment (VRA) you must ALSO submit an SF-50 showing your conversion or appointment to the excepted service VRA appointment (Authority code in block 5-C will be J8M).

PLEASE NOTE: For GS positions, to be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

If you are a DoD employee, you can obtain a copy of your SF- 50(s) from MyBiz. Failure to provide documentation that fully supports your claim will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Where did you hear about this job? We know you saw this announcement on USAJOBS, but did you hear about it somewhere else first?

Please tell us where you first heard about this job.
--Select-- 
--Select--
National Call to Maritime Service/Fleet Week
Department of the Navy (DON) Agency website/internet
Email from the Department of the Navy
LinkedIn
CareerBuilder.com
Indeed.com
Monster.com
Facebook
X (Formerly known as Twitter)
USAJOBS website
Job Supervisor
A Navy/Marine Corps employee, not the position supervisor
Friend or Family Member, not a Navy/Marine Corps employee
Contract employee
College/University Career Placement Office
College Alumni
Employment Office
Newspaper Advertisement
Job Career Fair
American Association of People with Disabilities
National Association of Asian American Professionals
2024 Federal Interagency Military Spouse Career Expo
2. Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?

The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories above, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

For more information see https://www.chcoc.gov/content/political-appointees-and-career-civil-service-positions-4 and https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/oversight-activities/faqs/

If you answer Yes to this question, you must provide your current or past SF50 for the political appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Condition of Employment
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a Secret security clearance.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am willing and able to accept a temporary position that will not exceed one year.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to work a Shift Work schedule. A Shift Work schedule describes work performed with varying and/or rotating shifts.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing and able to work an uncommon tour of duty (may include weekend, nights, overtime, or holidays).
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires that the selectee be willing and able to climb ladders and scaffolding. I am willing and able to climb ladders and scaffolding.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. Please select one response that best describes how you meet the basic education requirement for the GS-0840, Professional Nuclear Engineering Series.
 A. I have successfully completed a bachelor’s degree (or higher) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree (or higher) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position.
 B. I have a combination of college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (I) Professional registration or licensure: Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration; or (II) Written Test: Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico; or (III) Specified academic courses: Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and in engineering that included the courses specified in the basic requirements under paragraph A (above). The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in paragraph A (above); or (IV) Related curriculum: Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor’s degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor’s degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least one year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily, there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions.
 C. I do not have an engineering degree or an acceptable combination of education and experience as described above.
2. Please select one response that best describes how you meet the eligibility requirements for a Competitive Detail, GS-0840-11, NUCLEAR ENGINEER.
 A. I am a current permanent employee of PSNS & IMF, Code 2300 as a GS-0802-12, Engineering Technician.
 B. I am not a current permanent employee of PSNS & IMF, Code 2300 as a GS-0802-12, Engineering Technician.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3. Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected