Position Title
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Transportation Command
Announcement Number
USTC-12758763-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 10, 2025 to Sunday, July 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of experience that you fully possess for the position Financial Management Specialist (GS-0501-12). Read all the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. GS-11 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Research, interpret, and apply financial regulatory policies, procedures, standards; Develop procedures and policies for requirement and resource analysis to support management's business decisions; Provide guidance to resolve controversial issues, advocating proposals and recommendations, and reporting on progress in resolving critical issues; Interpret guidance to develop and/or redesign procedures to ensure necessary requirement and financial information is in the most accurate and defensible manner possible. (Experience MUST be reflected in the resume)
 B. My experience is not reflected in the statements above.
2. Select the response that best describes your experience in researching, interpreting, and applying financial regulatory policies, procedures, standards, and principles to provide advice on programmatic and financial related matters.
 A. I have participated on a team in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 C. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 D. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 E. I have not had experience or training in performing this task.
3. Select the statement that best describes your experience in leading, developing, revising and reporting directorate financial management readiness measures.
 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have not had experience or training in performing this task.
 C. I have participated on a team in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
4. Select the response that best describes your experience in utilizing office automation software (Microsoft Outlook, Word, Excel, Teams, and SharePoint) and collaboration tools to accomplish duties in the most efficient manner.
 A. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 B. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 C. I have participated on a team in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 D. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 E. I have not had experience or training in performing this task.
5. Select the statement that best describes your experience in interpreting guidance to develop and/or redesigning procedures to ensure necessary requirements and financial information is in the most accurate and defensible manner possible.
 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have not had experience or training in performing this task.
 C. I have participated on a team in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
6. Select the response that best describes your experience in developing procedures and policies for requirement and resource analysis to support management's business decisions.
 A. I have participated on a team in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 B. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 C. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 D. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 E. I have not had experience or training in performing this task.
7. Select the statement that best describes your experience in providing guidance to resolve controversial issues, advocating proposals and recommendations, and reporting on progress in resolving critical issues.
 A. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 B. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 C. I have not had experience or training in performing this task.
 D. I have participated on a team in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 E. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
8. Select the statement that best describes your experience in developing, measuring and reporting directorate financial management readiness.
 A. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 B. I have not had experience or training in performing this task.
 C. I have participated on a team in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, often independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 F. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely without supervision, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 G. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 H. I have not had experience or training in performing this task.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected