Position Title
Supervisory Management and Program Analyst (Chief of Staff)
Agency
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
Announcement Number
25-OPRSO-IMP-12802210-RDR Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 18, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you currently work at ATF?
 
To be eligible, you must:
Be a current permanent ATF employee on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. If you are unsure of your eligibility login to HR Connect to review your latest SF-50. Block 24 -Tenure must be "1 - Permanent" or "2 - Conditional" AND Block 34 - Position Occupied must be "1 -Competitive Service."
Submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) with your application package.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy; and
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels that I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold.
The full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s).
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and have you held the full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); and status in the competitive service (position occupied field is 1).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.
1. You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade in the federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level: Utilizes supervisory or leadership duties which includes administrative and operational matters, budgetary activities, strategic planning, fiscal/personnel resources and information technology issues affecting program operations; AND Manages the function of the work to be performed; AND Leads, directs and assigns work of personnel; AND Utilizes oral and written communication skills (a must to deal with various levels of internal and external management).
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described above.
2. This position requires the ability to supervise a staff of employees. Choose one from the following that best describes your highest level of experience in a permanent position.
 A. A team leader with full responsibility for planning and assigning work to be accomplished, setting and adjusting short-term priorities, providing technical review of work, coaching and counseling employees, providing input for performance evaluation and recognition of employees, documenting conduct and disciplinary issues, and managing productivity and quality of work.
 B. A Branch Chief or first level supervisor, with full authority to: plan work of staff; set and adjust short-term work priorities; assign work based on priorities and staff capabilities; set standards and evaluate work performance of subordinates; interview candidates for positions in the work unit; hear and resolve complaints from employees; effect minor disciplinary measures; identify staff developmental and training needs; relate organizational policies to staff; and develop improved work production and quality.A Branch Chief or first level supervisor, with full authority to: plan work of staff; set and adjust short-term work priorities; assign work based on priorities and staff capabilities; set standards and evaluate work performance of subordinates; interview candidates for positions in the work unit; hear and resolve complaints from employees; effect minor disciplinary measures; identify staff developmental and training needs; relate organizational policies to staff; and develop improved work production and quality.
 C. A Branch Chief or 2nd Level Supervisor with recurring responsibility for planning, developing, and implementing programs. This includes developing short and long-term action plans with milestones, identifying and managing fiscal resources, and managing work teams.
 D. None of the above.
3. Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? (Check all that apply)
 A. Established priorities among multiple projects
 B. Established timelines for multiple projects
 C. Initiated and managed projects through completion
 D. Made resource decisions for competing projects
 E. Assigned tasks and monitored performance
 F. Anticipated and resolved problems
 G. None of the above
4. I have experience in the management, oversight, and evaluation of the following operational activities for an organization (Check all that apply)
 A. Customer service management
 B. Strategic planning
 C. Regulatory oversight
 D. Policy development
 E. Administrative management
 F. Financial management
 G. Program management
 H. Committee management
 I. Quality assurance management
 J. Risk assessments
 K. None of the above
5. I have developed recommendations pertaining to (Check all that apply):
 A. Program management, including budget and human resources
 B. Implementation of programs
 C. Improvement of programs/operations
 D. Continuation or termination of programs
 E. Program direction and completion alternatives
 F. Problems or vulnerabilities in a program
 G. New policies or procedures for the agency
 H. Formulation of policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials)
 I. None of the above
6. I regularly compose written material where the audience consists of (Check all that apply):
 A. Senior Executive Service managers
 B. Office supervisors and managers
 C. Regional managers
 D. External corporate supervisors or managers
 E. Special interest groups
 F. OIG, GAO auditors, Congressional members, OMB, and/or their staff members
 G. General public
 H. None of the above
7. Choose the statement that best describes your ability to overcome obstacles; to analyze complex and sensitive issues, determine the underlying cause, adjust to changing resources, establish priorities, work independently, make sound decisions and to resolve conflicts.
 A. I have a history of successful problem solving demonstrated by letters of commendation, an award, and/or evaluation. I have experience completing more than one special project/assignment. I have served in a leadership role in the successful completion of a special project.
 B. I have a history of successful problem solving. I have experience completing more than one special project/assignment. I have served in a leadership role in the successful completion of a special project.
 C. I have a history of successful problem solving. I have worked with others to successfully complete a special project/assignment.
 D. None of the above
8. Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. (Check all that apply).
 A. I have written analytical/ technical reports for internal audiences.
 B. I have written analytical/ technical reports for external audiences.
 C. I have drafted information for inclusion in a project status report.
 D. I have written a project status report for presentation to senior management.
 E. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience.
 F. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience.
 G. I have written to defend a position and persuade readers.
 H. I have gathered and drafted information for issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at various levels.
 I. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at various levels.
 J. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 K. None of the above.
9. Choose the statement that best describes your ability to prepare written communications for a variety of audiences in an organized, concise and rational manner and to communicate sound technical advice to others, both within and external to the organization.
 A. I have prepared successful special correspondence such as position papers or policies statements. I am also published in a recognized professional journal, or textbook, or symposium proceeding and/or I am primary author of more than one procedure, order, policy and/or manual.
 B. I have prepared successful special correspondence such as position papers or policy statements and/or I am primary author of an internal procedure, order, and/or manual.
 C. I have prepared written material to explain administrative or technical programs, projects or situations to facilitate understanding and exchange of information.
 D. I have prepared written reports, letters, memorandums, and other routine correspondence to managers, peers, clients, and customers to exchange information regarding status of project, deadlines or other general issues.
 E. None of the above.
10. Choose the statement that best describes your ability to communicate orally in order to exchange information, promote or defend a position, and gain the confidence and trust of others.
 A. I have given at least one oral presentation to a group of professionals at a professional meeting. I have also given oral presentations or training to groups to explain highly technical or complex programs, projects or situations to facilitate understanding and exchange of information.
 B. I have given oral presentations to managers or groups to explain highly technical or complex programs, projects or situations to facilitate understanding and exchange of information. I have made verbal presentations to deliver external training.
 C. I have given verbal presentations to deliver external training.
 D. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
11. Do any of your relatives work for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives? Include: father; mother; husband; wife; son; daughter; brother; sister; uncle; aunt; first cousin; nephew; niece; father-in-law; mother-in-law; son-in-law; daughter-in-law; brother-in-law; sister-in-law; stepfather; stepmother; stepson; stepdaughter; stepbrother; stepsister; half-brother; and half-sister.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. ATF employment is contingent upon a favorable adjudication (decision) of your background investigation. Your conduct and character must demonstrate suitability for the position for which you are applying. Unresolved matters may prevent completion of your background investigation or favorable adjudication of it. If ATF cannot complete your background investigation and adjudicate it, you will be removed from the hiring process. Are you willing to submit to the background investigation process?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. The Department of Justice requires that you provide proof that for 3 out of the last 5 years you have resided in the United States, worked for the United States in a foreign country in a Federal or U.S. military capacity for 3 out of the last 5 years, and/or been a dependent of a Federal or U.S. military employee in a foreign country for 3 out of the last 5 years. Are you able to provide sufficient documentation to meet this residency requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 B. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected