Position Title
Mission Support Assistant
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
USBP-IMP-12779643-SNM Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 20, 2025 to Tuesday, August 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
6
7
2. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-5 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-6 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable.  TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not  (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
7. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-6 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-6 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-6 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-7 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable.  TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not  (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
8. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-06 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Providing broad assistance to other mission support personnel to include procurement of routine equipment and services, preparing purchase orders, assisting in identifying potential suppliers and coordinating as needed; Monitoring, receiving, prioritizing, and routing service requests; Providing customer service by answering routine questions, directing callers to the appropriate staff, and maintaining a calendar to include major events for planning purposes; Assisting in coordinating and monitoring the organization's property management and space utilization program.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
9. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-07 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes: Analyzing, evaluating, and improving the efficiency of internal administrative processes, workflow, and reporting/tracking systems; Utilizing automated systems to search various government and open market sources for information on purchasing products and/or services; Developing, evaluating, and advising on the methods related to administrative or records management systems' directives management, mail management, or forms management; Performing other office automation tasks, in combination with clerical work performed as part of the general office support.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
Assessment 1
1. Which of the following office tools or equipment have you used routinely and independently in your jobs or volunteer work?

 A. Multi-line telephone systems
 B. Personal computers
 C. E-mail
 D. Networked office systems/applications
 E. Internet
 F. Copiers
 G. Fax machines
 H. Scanning
 I. None of the above
2. I am proficient at performing the following functions using computers and/or computer software.

 A. Receiving and transmitting e-mail
 B. Inputting spreadsheet data
 C. Editing spreadsheet data
 D. Retrieving spreadsheet data
 E. Inputting database data
 F. None of the above
3. I am proficient at using the following software.

 A. Microsoft Word
 B. Microsoft Outlook
 C. Microsoft Excel
 D. Microsoft PowerPoint
 E. Microsoft Access
 F. Adobe
 G. Other
 H. None of the above
4. I have retired records in accordance with one or more records retention schedules established by outside regulatory agencies.

 A. YES
 B. NO
5. Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience managing and maintaining records?

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
6. Which of the following office tasks have you performed independently in jobs that you have held?

 A. Receive, open and distribute mail to a variety of recipients
 B. Search files for documents or other sources of information
 C. Make copies, collate, and/or bind materials Greet, refer and assist visitors
 D. Receive telephone calls and determine proper referrals Compose simple correspondence for review by others Prepare a variety of reports in accordance with instructions
 E. Order supplies
 F. None of the above
7. From the list below, select all those that apply to maintaining your supervisor's calendar.

 A. Use independent judgment in scheduling most of supervisor’s appointments
 B. Contact parties to confirm or reschedule supervisor’s appointments
 C. Notify the supervisor of pending appointments
 D. None of the above
8. From the choices below select the one that best describes your most frequent type of response to telephone inquiries.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
9. From the choices below select the one that best describes your most frequent type of response to office visitors from outside the organization.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
10. Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience locating and summarizing information from records?
 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
11. From the choices below, select the one that best reflects your ability to communicate information orally.

 A. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
12. In the equipment acquisition and inventory process I have:

 A. Prepared requisitions for equipment maintenance and repair
 B. Maintained property management records
 C. Conducted inventories of accountable property
 D. Prepared reports of lost, stolen, or damaged property
 E. Been an accountable property officer
 F. None of the above
13. I am proficient at securing and maintaining inventories of controlled materials including records to account for their use.

 A. YES
 B. NO
14. I have reviewed invoices for supplies, equipment, and/or contractual (fee basis) services to detect billing errors.

 A. YES
 B. NO
15. From the list below, select all those tasks you have performed to organize, control, and file non-technical, non-scientific correspondence or documents.

 A. Using a pre-established, standardized document and records filing system
 B. Archiving and disposing of records in accordance with the employer’s policies and regulations
 C. Logging and establishing routing and suspense dates for incoming correspondence.
 D. Organizing a body of correspondence and/or documents in proper sequence to facilitate review by other parties
 E. Utilizing software for document management (storage, retrieval, distribution)
 F. None of the above
16. I have performed work assignments which required me to interact and communicate with people who:

 A. Speak English as a second language
 B. Are physically disabled
 C. Are ethnically and culturally different from me
 D. None of the above
17. I am proficient in the proper use of sentence structure, grammar, and spelling when preparing correspondence.

 A. YES
 B. NO
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected