Position Title
Sexual Assault Prevention & Response (SAPR) Victim Advocate
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12792683 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Friday, September 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
1. Please select the response that best describes how you meet the basic education requirements for the Social Science Series, 0101?
 A. I have successfully completed a degree in behavioral or social science; or in a related disciplines appropriate to the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocate position.
 B. I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 C. I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 D. I have none of the above.
2. Which of the following best describes your specialized experience requirements for the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocate position?
 A. I have at least 3 years’ specialized experience providing support to adult victims of sexual assault and/or sexual harassment.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a related discipline (e.g. behavioral or social science) appropriate to the position.
 C. I have successfully completed three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent degree in a related discipline (e.g. behavioral or social science) appropriate to the position.
 D. I have a combination of experience and education as described above that equates to 3 years of experience. My percentage of the required education plus my percentage of the required experience equal 100%.
 E. I do not have any of the above education/experience.
3. Within which sector or agency do you have experience providing sexual assault and/or sexual harassment victim services?
 A. I have experience providing sexual assault and/or sexual harassment victim services within a combination of two or more of the above sectors/agencies
 B. I have experience providing the above within the Department of Navy (DoN).
 C. I have experience providing the above within the Department of Defense (DOD), but outside DoN.
 D. I have experience providing the above within the public sector, but outside DOD.
 E. I have experience providing the above within the private sector
 F. I do not have experience with the above.
4. How many years' experience do you have working with sexual assault victims in crisis situations, performing duties such as conducting risk assessments to determine their immediate needs, and evaluating safety concerns and levels of risk?
 A. I have 5+ years’ experience with the above.
 B. I have 4 to 5 years’ experience with the above.
 C. I have 3 to 4 years’ experience with the above.
 D. I have less than 3 years’ experience with the above.
 E. I have no experience with the above.
5. How many years' experience do you have providing a wide range of essential support services for victims of sexual harassment and/or sexual assault, such as advocacy services; liaison services; community resources; and post primary care activities?
 A. I have 5+ years’ experience with the above.
 B. I have 4 to 5 years’ experience with the above.
 C. I have 3 to 4 years’ experience with the above.
 D. I have less than 3 years’ experience with the above.
 E. I have no experience with the above.
6. How many years' experience do you have developing and delivering presentations and training?
 A. I have 5+ years’ experience with the above.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years’ experience with the above.
 C. I have 1 to 3 years’ experience with the above.
 D. I have less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 E. I have no experience with the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected