Position Title
Polygraph Examiner (Reemployed Annuitants and ICTAP Eligibles)
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
INV-QB-12806288-25-RA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 1, 2025 to Thursday, October 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm the following:  
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which will be or were separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which will be or were separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, notice of (proposed) removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside the local commuting area (e.g., a directed reassignment or a change in duty station), notice of compensable work-related injury or illness termination and agency certification of inability to place, or notice of disability annuity termination; AND
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; AND
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a retiree of the Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS), receiving a federal annuity, who is eligible for re-employment as a federal annuitant?

To verify eligibility as a Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System eligible, you must submit your retirement Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
Retirement (Block-5B); and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the retirement SF-50)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Jacksonville, FL
 D. Miami, FL
 E. Atlanta, GA
 F. Indianapolis, IN
 G. Kansas City, MO
 H. Brooklyn, NY
 I. Independence, OH
 J. Philadelphia, PA
 K. Pittsburgh, PA
 L. Houston, TX
 M. Irving, TX


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Conditional Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


2.
Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero).


3.
If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 Yes
 No


All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Polygraph Examiner position with United states Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the specialized experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Polygraph Examiner at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS- (12) grade level in the Federal Service which includes: Performing various test interviews to assess truthfulness and gather relevant information to conduct a polygraph examination; Interpreting and evaluating physiological responses recorded during polygraph examinations to determine consistency with truthful and deceptive behavior; Documenting findings and conclusions from polygraph examinations reports for use in investigations or adjudications; Advising stakeholders in polygraph-related matters, including providing testimony in legal or administrative settings.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you currently hold a Federal Polygraph Certification from the National Center for Credibility Assessment (NCCA).
 Yes
 No


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙