Position Title
Investigative Analyst
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
INV-AV-12793694-25-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, September 12, 2025 to Thursday, September 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet the ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee in the competitive service?
OR
Are you a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee with an excepted service agency and meet the criteria for appointment into the competitive service based on a DHS interchange agreement?  

To verify eligibility, as a CURRENT Department of Homeland Security employee you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Permanent or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service or Excepted Service* (Position Occupied is 1 or 2 in block 34); and
The highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50); and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
*If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block 34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial appointment SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment. For information review Interchange Agreements With Other Merit Systems

Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, include promotions and with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Oklahoma City, OK
2. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
1. In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. If I receive a conditional offer of employment, I am willing to undergo a pre-employment drug screening.
 A. Yes
 B. No
All applicants must undergo a comprehensive background investigation. The background investigation focuses on your honesty, reliability, police record, financial record, use of alcohol and drugs, mental health, and employment record. The background investigation includes interviews with your past and present employers, neighbors, teachers, and references, as well as checks of law enforcement, credit, educational, medical, and other records.
3. Recruiter ID Number: If you have one, please enter your recruiter's ID number. (Your recruiter would have supplied it to you). If you do not have one, please enter 0 (zero). (limit 7 characters)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Investigative Analyst position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Investigative Analyst at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service which includes; performing basic administrative support using databases, software or systems to maintain and/or organize investigative case data; assisting in gathering various types of data from a variety of sources to develop routine reports; and assisting in maintaining and developing profiles used in criminal investigations.
 B. I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate-level education in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 C. I have successfully completed all the requirements for a bachelor’s degree, and I am claiming Superior Academic Achievement. To be creditable under this provision, Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled, such as that identified in B above. Superior Academic Achievement is based on: (1) Class Standing - You must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) - You must have a grade-point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR (3) Honor Society Membership - You may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achsnatl.org/). (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.) requirements for a bachelor’s degree, and I am claiming Superior Academic Achievement. To be
 D. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate education as described in B, but less than the required one year. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.).
 E. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B or C. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 F. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Investigative Analyst at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service which includes assisting in determining leads for further research and analysis in criminal investigations, conducting research and database searches from a variety of sources and assisting with processing and evaluating analytical assignments and/or research projects in support of criminal investigations.
 B. I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL. B or J.D. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position.
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts. Failure to provide your transcript will result in an ineligible rating.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
3. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience extracting relevant information and applying new research avenues and methodologies.
 A. I have experience identifying and extracting relevant information that is not readily apparent.
 B. I have some experience anticipating and identifying information needs, and comparing and contrasting information obtained from a few different sources.
 C. I have knowledge of statistical/analytical tools and have used them to research and exploit data.
 D. I have extensive experience anticipating and identifying information needs and researching information when there are significant gaps in information. I make recommendations to fill those gaps (e.g., knowledge of pattern analysis, political, influence modeling, survey research tools, etc.).
 E. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
4. Do you have experience using a variety of statistical/analytical tools to research and extract relevant data?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. From the list below, select the statement that indicates the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed information.
 A. I have gathered information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
 B. I have gathered information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 C. I have gathered information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 D. I have gathered information in preparation for analysis by others.
 E. I have had no experience in performing this task.
6. From the list below, select the analytical tools you have experience using.
 A. I2 Analyst Notebook or similar link analysis tool
 B. Comprehensive Financial Investigative Solution or similar financial analysis software
 C. PenLink or similar telecommunications analysis software
 D. Chain analysis or similar crypto currency software tool
 E. Intella or similar analysis software
 F. Microsoft Office
 G. Adobe Products
 H. Google Maps
 I. None of the above
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.
7. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience providing guidance on ambiguous or conflicting data for criminal investigations.
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
8. From the list below, select the statement that best describe your experience evaluating the credibility of information to determine trends or patterns in support of law enforcement operations.
 A. I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 B. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 C. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 D. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 E. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.
9. From the list below, select all of the types of financial crimes in which you have experience analyzing data.
 A. Credit card theft
 B. Mortgage fraud
 C. Identity theft
 D. Money laundering
 E. Bank fraud
 F. Mass marketing fraud
 G. Cyber crimes
 H. Unlicensed money service business
 I. Cryptocurrency related crimes
 J. Other complex financial cases
 K. None of the above
10. From the list below, select all that describe your education, training and/or experience authoring or providing the below functions.
 A. Crime analysis
 B. Crime trends
 C. Crime bulletins
 D. Forecast criminal activity
 E. Spatial/temporal analysis
 F. Investigative plans
 G. Target profiles
 H. Threat analysis
 I. Critical incident analysis
 J. Interview strategies
 K. Major case management
 L. Search warrant assistance
 M. Prosecution and trial strategies
 N. Expert testimony
 O. None of the above
11. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your education, training and/or experience utilizing research process or techniques.
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job
 C. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 E. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
12. From the list below, select all of the following actions that describe your experience with data retrieved from law enforcement and commercial databases.
 A. Import
 B. Export
 C. Concatenate
 D. Separate/parse
 E. Cleanse
 F. Query
 G. None of the above
13. Select the statement that best describes your highest level of work experience analyzing and interpreting information or data.
 A. I have no education or training in analyzing information and/or data.
 B. I have performed basic analytical tasks that required the interpretation of basic instructions, information, or data in order to perform routine tasks or duties.
 C. I have performed analytical tasks requiring the interpretation and application of routine and non-routine information, instructions, guidelines, regulations, or data in order to perform tasks or duties.
 D. I have performed analytical tasks that required the interpretation and application of non-routine and complex information, instructions, guidelines, regulations, or data in order to perform tasks or duties. I have evaluated information or assessed a situation calling for good judgment and recommended the best course of action.
14. From the list below, select the statement that describes the purpose of your regular job-related communication.
 A. To obtain, clarify, or give facts or information regardless of the nature of those facts.
 B. To plan, coordinate, or advise on work efforts or to resolve operating problems by influencing or persuading individuals or groups.
 C. To influence, persuade, or direct people or groups.
 D. To justify, defend, negotiate, or settle matters involving significant or controversial issues and/or programs.
 E. None of the above
15. From the list below select your experience participating on a criminal investigative team.
 A. Participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 B. Served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring their progress.
 C. None of the above
16. From the list below, select the statement(s) that match your ability to work within a team environment.
 A. I establish and maintain good working relationships with individuals within the group.
 B. I initiate and maintain good working relationships with individuals outside my immediate office.
 C. I motivate group members to achieve project goals and objectives.
 D. I share with others in the group, including my supervisors, new developments that may affect my work or the work of others.
 E. I mediate between group members to resolve team issues, problems, and/or conflicts.
 F. None of the above
17. From the list below select all of the statements that demonstrate your experience with written material.
 A. Write non-technical information for internal and external audiences.
 B. Prepare interoffice memoranda.
 C. Prepare letters for external organizations on behalf of the Department/Agency.
 D. Complete incident reports.
 E. Review reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy and organization of material.
 F. None of the above
18. From the list below, select the statement that best describes your experience analyzing investigative reports.
 A. I have independently analyzed investigative reports by identifying the issues in the investigation and providing a written report detailing the issues.
 B. I have analyzed investigative reports and provided written reports with limited supervision.
 C. I have reviewed investigative reports but have no experience writing written reports.
 D. None of the above
19. From the list below, select the task(s) that describe your experience with written material.
 A. Preparing operational reports
 B. Preparing impact statements for initiatives, projects or programs
 C. Preparing statistical reports with data analysis
 D. Preparing statistical reports with charts
 E. Preparing power point presentations
 F. Preparing analysis reports
 G. None of the above
20. Your response to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected