Position Title
Special Assistant
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OT-IMP-12764271-TTL Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 16, 2025 to Tuesday, July 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a current or former U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, if you are a former CBP employee your former position of record is in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.
7. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-13 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes developing long-range plans for new or complex programs. Interpreting and recommending administrative procedures and policies. Developing policy guidance on the management of all types of communications directed to the attention of the organization's highest-level executives. Implementing the new initiatives and projects to strengthen and facilitate program goals. Evaluating and analyzing multi-functional programs, functions, and organizations to determine whether the management systems used efficiently accomplish the stated objectives.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
8. This vacancy has a local commuting area requirement, as defined below:
The area surrounding the duty station by which people reasonably travel back and forth from home to work; Or
The employee's permanent duty station is located within the reasonable travel area surrounding the duty station of this vacancy; Or if applicable
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for less than 1 year) to another duty location, the permanent duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
For employees who are detailed or temporarily promoted (for more than 1 year) to another duty location, the detailed or temporary duty location is considered to be the duty location of record for commuting area purposes.
Do you meet the local commuting area requirement?
 A. A. Yes, I meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
 B. B. No, I do not meet the local commuting area requirement as defined above.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Select the option that best describes your experience assisting employees, supervisors, and management on the interpretation of administrative program policies, procedures, and regulatory requirements.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have answered routine questions from employees regarding policies, procedures, and directives of management.
 C. I have been responsible for providing advice to employees on policies, procedures, and directives of management.
 D. I have advised supervisors and managers on policies, procedures, and regulatory requirements
 E. I have provided expert-level advice to senior leadership within my organization on complex issues regarding policies, procedures, and regulatory requirements.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience evaluating the effectiveness, improving the efficiency, and/or resolving problems of existing administrative systems, processes, and procedures.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made specific changes to my procedures that have improved my own efficiency.
 C. I have recommended changes that have been adopted by my co-workers and that have improved their efficiency and increased the effectiveness of office procedures.
 D. I have evaluated work units within my organization for quality and efficiency and recommended specific changes to improve current procedures and quality of work.
 E. I have evaluated work units outside of my organization for quality and efficiency and recommended specific changes to polices and procedures to improve overall quality of work.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience reviewing correspondence prepared for signature by organization executives and ensuring that correspondence is complete, accurate and consistent with organizational policies and positions.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reviewed and corrected correspondence, reports, and other communications prepared by others for proper grammar, spelling, and punctuation.
 C. I have reviewed and corrected correspondence, reports, and other communications from junior or subordinate staff for proper grammar, spelling, punctuation and required formats. I have prepared emails and other communications for my supervisor's signature.
 D. I have extensive experience reviewing and correcting correspondence, reports, and other communications from junior or subordinate staff for proper grammar, spelling, punctuation and required formats, and preparing communications for supervisory signature. I have prepared final versions of materials for signature by or dissemination to the senior leadership of an organization/agency.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience informing managers and superiors about important issues (for example, program status, problems, and adjustments to plans or schedules).

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on program status or technical problems requiring resolution.
 C. I have given formal briefings to higher level officials in the organization regarding program status or technical problems requiring resolution.
 D. I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to higher level officials both within and outside my organization regarding program status or technical problems requiring resolution.
5. Select the option that best describes your experience preparing briefing materials for and attending formal and informal meetings.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written portions of briefing materials and frequently attended meetings on behalf of my office to take notes on topics of importance.
 C. I have independently prepared briefing materials for presentation by a supervisor or more senior individual and I have presented specific, pre-determined information at meetings, conferences, or seminars as a representative of my office.
 D. I have extensive experience preparing, reviewing, and presenting briefing materials and I have frequently represented my office at meetings, conferences, or seminars and shared my technical expertise in the topic area.
6. Select the option that best describes your experience reviewing or editing documents.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have only reviewed correspondence for proper spelling and typographical accuracy.
 C. I have reviewed correspondence for proper format, conformance with instructions or manuals, grammar, typographical accuracy, and spelling.
 D. I have reviewed correspondence for proper format, conformance with instructions or manuals, grammar, typographical accuracy, and spelling.
 E. I have reviewed correspondence for proper content, as well as for proper format, conformance with instructions or manuals, grammar, typographical accuracy, attachments, and consistency.
7. Select the option that best describes your experience providing administrative support.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have scheduled appointments or travel for my supervisor or maintained my supervisor’s calendar.
 C. I have made travel arrangements and scheduled meetings or conferences for office staff, supervisor(s), or small work groups.
 D. I have coordinated travel arrangements and meetings or conferences (for example, arranged for conference space, audiovisual needs, shipping of conference materials, or arranging conference registration) for large work groups, supervisors, or upper level management.
 E. I have planned, prioritized, and coordinated travel arrangements, meetings, or conferences (for example, arranged for conference space, audiovisual needs, or arranged for conference registration) for events involving joint activities across several major offices within my organization.
8. Select the option that best describes your experience maintaining databases for retrieval of information for inquiries and reports.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have made entries regarding the receipt and status of information requests into a database or tracking system that was created and maintained by someone else.
 C. I have independently maintained a database for information requests
 D. I have developed a database for use by others to entering information, ensure accuracy, and provide information as requested.
9. Select the choice that best describes your ability to use standard office software packages.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training in using software applications, but have not applied this training on the job.
 C. I have used software applications to perform routine tasks such as saving or printing files.
 D. I have used software applications to manipulate files, to compile information, to maintain logs, or to prepare reports or documents.
 E. I have used software applications (for example, spreadsheet templates or mail merges) to create, edit, and manipulate large or complex files, to prepare complex documents, to analyze data, or to design new templates or procedures.
10. Do you have the knowledge of the concepts, principles, regulations, and policies governing correspondence and records management.

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Select the choice that best describes your ability to plan, schedule, and carry out major initiatives and projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have set goals and priorities for assignments in school or in job-training, but I have not set goals and priorities in a work setting.
 C. I have followed a schedule, goals, and guidelines prepared by and monitored by my supervisor.
 D. I have set goals and priorities for my own work and coordinated activities and timelines with others to ensure that project goals and deadlines were met.
 E. I have set project requirements and priorities for a work team, developed strategies to achieve goals, and coordinated work requirements, resources, and personnel (within the team).
12. Select the choice that best describes your ability to develop new insights into situations and apply innovative solutions to problems.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have contributed to an innovative action addressing new needs or issues as a member of a group or problem solving team.
 C. I have independently taken innovative actions to address new needs and issues of moderate complexity. My peers have sought me out due to my expertise in generating innovative ideas to address complex problems.
 D. My superiors have consulted me for my expertise in taking innovative action to address highly complex, technical, or specialized matters. New policies, practices, or procedures have been implemented as a result of my ability to generate innovative strategies.
13. Select the choice that best describes your ability to communicate effectively with employees at all levels of the organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have notified supervisors, managers, or offices orally of decisions, problems, or further actions needed. In addition, I have informally explained the organization’s programs or services to others.
 C. I have given formal presentations at departmental/organizational briefings and meetings.
 D. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations, or given formal presentations of technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have adapted my explanations to the level of the target audience.
14. Select the choice that best describes your ability to operate standard office equipment.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had general experience in using office equipment such as a typewriter, fax, photocopier, or shredder.
 C. I have had extensive experience in using a broad variety of office equipment, such as a scanner and a postage-meter machine as well as solved minor equipment operation errors (for example, paper jams, ink replacement etc.).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected