Position Title
Supervisory Agricultural Commodity Grader (Cotton) (Area Director)
Agency
Agricultural Marketing Service
Announcement Number
MP-12769007-25-CT Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 to Wednesday, August 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
1. Are you a current Agricultural Marketing Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Agricultural Marketing Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Visalia, CA
 B. Abilene, TX
2. Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal or FSA County Annuity?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Have you ever received a voluntary separation incentive payment (VSIP or buyout) to leave the Federal civilian service or FSA County position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former: Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you a federal employee receiving a recruitment, relocation, retention and/or other incentive payment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Once a selection is made for this position, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with other hiring managers in the agency who have similar vacancies. Please opt in below if you're willing to have your name, application material, and assessment results shared to be considered for additional, similar positions. There is no guarantee of for further consideration.
 A. Opt-in: Please share my name, application material, and assessment results with additional hiring managers within the agency for similar positions.
 B. Opt-out: I only want to be considered for positions associated with this specific application.
Core Questions
1. Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume or OF-612?

If yes, please type Yes.
If no, please type No and include the following in your response for all positions held: position title, employer, dates employed (MM/DD/YY), work schedule (i.e., Full-Time (FT), Part-Time (PT), etc.), and hours/week. Please list in order with current/most recent position first.
Failure to provide all requested information may prevent us from giving credit for experience.
2. I understand for information on the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I (the applicant) must inquire through USAJOBS. No separate notification will be sent to me. To view the status of my application and the outcome of the application process, I must go to the USAJOBS website and log into My Account. Once in My Account, I must enter the "Application Status" section of the website.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, 50B, performance appraisal may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I understand that if I am a current or former federal employee, I must submit an SF-50 showing my career/career-conditional status AND a performance appraisal dated within 18 months or as statement detailing the reason for not submitting the appraisal as part of the application package.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee in a permanent position in the competitive service, what is the highest grade level you held, excluding temporary promotions? (Please include the pay plan, e.g. GS-7, WG-10, or NA for not applicable). (limit 250 characters)
7. If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee, please indicate the start date and end dates of the highest graded permanent positions you held, excluding temporary promotions (e.g. MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to present, or NA for not applicable). (limit 250 characters)
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-13 - Choose one answer that best describes your experience.
 A. I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. I have been employed as a government or private Inspector or Agricultural Commodity Grader where you applied commercial or federal quality standards to agricultural commodities or products.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Which of the following types of standards have you applied to agricultural commodities or products?
 A. Standards and criteria for identifying the commodity or product
 B. Standards for grading the quality of the commodity or product
 C. Standards for classifying the condition of the commodity or product
 D. Standards or guidelines for sampling the commodity or product
 E. Other standards or guidelines
 F. None of the above
4. I have trained, instructed, or mentored students, junior staff, or plant staff in the following topics and practices:
 A. Legal requirements for certification, licensing, and/or registration
 B. Application of agricultural commodity grading or class standards
 C. Making difficult, unusual, and borderline grading decisions
 D. Agricultural commodity science or technology
 E. Application of federal legal and regulatory requirements
 F. Quality control procedures used in processing agricultural products
 G. Safety procedures, practices, and requirements
 H. Liability and reparation procedures and precedents
 I. None of the above
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. I currently hold, or have held in the past, a USDA license to grade cotton.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Monitoring the quality and consistency of classing determinations made by groups, lines, or shifts of graders.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Diagnosing and correcting grading techniques and decisions made by individuals and groups of graders.
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I have analyzed, prepared, monitored, executed and controlled budgets for programs utilizing the following:
 A. Appropriated funds
 B. Trust Funds
 C. Grant Funds
 D. Non-appropriated Funds
 E. Reimbursable Services
 F. Cooperative agreement arrangements
 G. Interagency agreements
 H. Fee for service arrangements
 I. User fee arrangements
 J. None of the above
9. In which of the following leadership roles have you served?
 A. Ad hoc project leader
 B. Ad hoc work group or crew leader
 C. Acting supervisor
 D. Acting organization or program manager
 E. Permanent project manager
 F. Permanent team / crew leader
 G. Permanent first line supervisor
 H. Permanent second level supervisor / manager
 I. Permanent assistant / deputy organization or program mananger
 J. None of the above
10. I have direct experience performing the following:
 A. Taking immediate action to correct undesirable or inappropriate behavior of subordinates
 B. Taking control of situations where subordinates were being subjected to undesirable or inappropriate behavior from persons outside the organization
 C. Effecting formal disciplinary actions needed to correct inappropriate conduct by subordinates
 D. Counseling employees concerning performance shortfalls
 E. Arranging for employees to take advantage of employee assistance programs to help overcome sensitive personal problems such as substance abuse, grief, mental, or emotional health issues
 F. Taking actions necessary to assure the security of individual employees or groups facing threats to their personal safety
 G. None of the above
11. Which of the following groups or entities have you engaged professionally?
 A. Agricultural businesses and/or cooperatives
 B. Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) Networks and/or Associations
 C. Economic Development Corporations
 D. Local and/or Tribal governments
 E. Producer networks and/or associations
 F. Public benefit corporations
 G. Regional farmers market authorities
 H. State Departments of Agriculture
 I. Land Grant Universities (Including 1862, 1892, and 1994 institutions)
 J. None of the above
12. I have developed the following to communicate and/or explain grade and classification standards for cotton or cotton product.
 A. Written instructions and procedures
 B. Written specifications
 C. Inspection instructions
 D. Operating manuals and guidelines
 E. Industry bulletins
 F. Training and educational materials
 G. Visual aids, illustrations, slides, digital images
 H. None of the above
13. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected