Position Title
Supervisory Physical Scientist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
LSS-IMP-12790219-EEE Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 2, 2025 to Monday, September 8, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.
1. Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of GS-14?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Federal employees who competed for and currently hold, or have previously held, a permanent position of GS-14 (or equivalent) or higher, may be referred for selection without competition under our agency promotion procedures. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-11 position with promotion potential to the GS-13.  The progression is GS-11, GS-12, and GS-13.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-14 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-13.
Your current position is a GS-13. You previously held a GS-14 position on a permanent basis.  GS-14 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 A. Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 B. No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 D. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.
3. If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.
4. If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.
5. I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.

Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Include full legal name
Address
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.
6.

All newly appointed, first-time CBP supervisors are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors to attend within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, first time permanent supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with current agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former first time supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes overseeing the application of the LSS Quality Program within the field laboratory and through the local Quality Manager with familiarization of LSS Quality Program requirements and any accrediting body’s supplemental requirements to serve as the laboratory’s administrative coordinator; maintaining a high level of awareness for current technical, management, budgetary, human resource, and union issues; addressing complaints from employees and effecting disciplinary measures, such as warnings and reprimands, and other actions, when necessary; planning work for future requirements and actively pursuing ways to improve the efficiency and quality of the laboratory’s product and services; and coordinating with other field locations and the national office, and providing expertise in developing, implementing, and evaluating national programs, as requested.
 B. I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.
8. Which of the following best describes your education to qualify for this position?
 A. I have a degree in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 B. I have a combination of education and experience--education equivalent to one of the majors shown in "A" above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to rate applicants who meet the minimum eligibility and qualification requirements.
1. Select the choice that best describes your experience recommending improvements on current programs.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have independently evaluated a program's productivity and developed recommendations to improve the program.
 C. I have led comprehensive studies to evaluate a program's productivity and develop recommendations on improvements to the program.
 D. I have directed and overseen the work of subordinate employees who evaluated programs' productivity and developed recommendations on improvements to current programs.
2. Select the option that best describes your experience ensuring existing programs include a long-term outlook consistent with customer needs.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in reviews of existing programs, and have discussed the potential impact of these with others to ensure a long-term outlook that is consistent with customer needs.
 C. I have independently reviewed existing programs and have led discussions on the impact of these to ensure a long-term outlook that is consistent with customer needs.
 D. I am the primary person responsible for reviewing existing programs. I have provided guidance to senior management on the impact of these plans and policies on customer needs.
3. Select the option that best describes your experience developing policies, systems, and programs to improve technical qualities of a laboratory.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assisted others in the development of policies, systems, and programs to improve technical qualities of a laboratory.
 C. I have independently developed policies, systems, and programs to improve technical qualities of a laboratory under the direct supervision of other more senior analysts.
 D. I have independently developed policies, systems, and programs to improve technical qualities of a laboratory, which have been implemented and have resulted in improved laboratories and operational effectiveness.
 E. I have overseen the development of broad reaching policies, systems, and programs to improve technical qualities of laboratories, which have been implemented and have resulted in improved laboratories and operational effectiveness.
4. Select the option that best describes your experience establishing and adjusting priorities for work, team, and group projects.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have established priorities for a team or group project and I have made adjustments to accommodate unexpected changes in project resources, goals, or unanticipated changes in the work place.
 C. I have established priorities for projects involving multiple teams or organizations and I have made adjustments to accommodate sudden major changes, problems, or setbacks.
5. Select the option that best describes your experience assigning work to subordinates based on priorities, requirements of assignments, and capabilities of the employees.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have assigned work as a team leader or an acting supervisor.
 C. I have assigned work to subordinates as a supervisor, and adjusted those assignments based on changing priorities and demonstrated skills of employees.
 D. I have assigned program and project responsibilities to subordinate units as a first-line supervisor.
 E. I have assigned program and project responsibilities to subordinate units as a second- or third-level supervisor.
6. Select the option that best describes your experience performing general supervisory duties (e.g., determining and assigning jobs, selections for promotion, reviewing work products)

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have supervised one to five employees at a single location performing duties such as assigning and reviewing work products, and offering advice and counsel.
 C. I have supervised a small team of five or more employees at a single location, performing duties such as assigning and reviewing work products, making selections for promotions, and offering advice and counsel.
 D. I have supervised employees at two separate locations, performing duties such as assigning and reviewing work products, making selections for promotions, and offering advice and counsel.
 E. I have supervised more than two teams and at multiple locations, performing duties such as assigning and reviewing work products, making selections for promotions, and offering advice and counsel. I have been responsible for ensuring each team had sufficient resources to complete the job.
7. Select the option that best describes your experience developing and maintaining effective relationships (liaison) with individuals internal and external to your work group, office, and organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have maintained relationships with individuals in my work group or office, primarily in the completion of my regular job duties or in my response to specific inquiries.
 C. I have maintained relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group and office to exchange information, resolve problems, or participate in joint task forces/teams.
 D. I have developed and maintained extensive relationships with individuals internal and external to my work group, office, and organization to resolve problems, plan joint task force/team projects, and establish long-term working relationships.
8. Select the option that best describes your experience providing guidance in support of front line operators to all levels of an organization.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have received training or education in this area but have not had the opportunity to apply it on the job.
 C. I have occasionally provided guidance and assistance to employees in my work unit in support of front line operators.
 D. I have regularly provided guidance and assistance to other work units in support of front line operators.
 E. I am frequently asked by senior leadership to consult on highly complex, technical, or specialized matters related to support of front line operators.
9. Do you have experience managing multiple remote locations with remote personnel that are co-located or embedded with other organizational components?

 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Do you have experience maintaining awareness and staying current on operational trends within the organization to advise on technical, management, or budgetary issues?

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Select the choice that best describes your ability to express facts and ideas in writing.

 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have written short responses to routine requests for information.
 C. I have written portions of reports, information papers, and other documents (technical and non-technical).
 D. I have independently composed written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses.
 E. I have independently completed many high-level written reports, information papers, policies/procedures, and other complete documents based on study findings and results of analyses, and have had that work published (e.g., in a peer-reviewed journal).
12. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of management principles, practices, methods, and techniques.
 A. I have had no training or experience applying this knowledge.
 B. I have completed training in some of the fundamental principles of management principles, practices, methods, and techniques, but I have not yet applied this training in a work setting.
 C. I have applied the basic or fundamental principles of management principles, practices, methods, and techniques in a work setting.
 D. I have applied advanced principles of management principles, practices, methods, and techniques in a work setting.
 E. I am considered to be an expert in management principles, practices, methods, and techniques. Others consult me for my knowledge in this area.
13. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of chemistry theories, principles, methodologies and practices.

 A. I have no knowledge of these theories, principles, methodologies, or practices.
 B. I have a basic understanding of chemistry theories, principles, methodologies, and practices, but I have not applied this knowledge in a work setting.
 C. I have a working knowledge of applicable chemistry theories, principles, methodologies, and practices. I have applied this knowledge in a work setting.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of chemistry theories, principles, methodologies, and practices. I am frequently consulted on these matters based on my expertise.
 E. I am sought out for my comprehensive knowledge of chemistry theories, principles, methodologies, and practices. I have extensive experience in resolving complex, intricate, or sensitive issues and problems or in developing new policies and practices.
14. Indicate the extent of your knowledge of the equal opportunity program.
 A. I have had no training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have a basic knowledge of the equal opportunity program. I have applied this knowledge with direction or guidance from a supervisor or more senior individual.
 C. I have a working knowledge of the equal opportunity program. I have independently applied this knowledge to solve problems and to provide technical guidance in a work setting.
 D. I have extensive knowledge of the equal opportunity program. I have applied this knowledge in resolving complex or intricate issues.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected