Position Title
Youth Sports and Fitness Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25741-CYP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, August 6, 2025 to Wednesday, August 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for Youth Sports and Fitness Coordinator. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1. Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 A. A minimum of a 4-year degree in Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Youth Development, or other related degree as appropriate is preferred AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 B. A Master's degree in a related field of study AND a minimum of 1 year of professional experience working with children and/or youth.
 C. A combination of experience that demonstrates the ability to plan, organize, coordinate, supervise, or evaluate youth fitness, recreation, and sports programs AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 D. I have none of the above.
2. What is your highest level of education?
 A. I have a master’s degree in Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Youth Development, or other related degree.
 B. I have a 4-year degree in Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Youth Development, or other related degree.
 C. I do not have a degree, but have experience in planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, and/or evaluating youth fitness, recreation, and sports programs.
 D. I have none of the above.
3. How many years of experience do you have in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct of youth and adult participants?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 3+ years of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 C. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 D. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience in facilitating a recreational program environment that encourages appropriate sportsman-like conduct.
 F. I have no experience in the above.
4. How many years of experience do you have in record management, inventory control, or purchasing as it pertains to a child and youth development program?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 3+ years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 C. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 D. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing.
 F. I have no experience in the above.
5. How many years of experience do you have in ensuring the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate indoor and outdoor activity environments (e.g., sports fields, courts, etc.), as well as the necessary supplies and equipment (e.g., baseball bats, soccer balls, scoreboards, etc.)?
 A. I have 3+ years of experience in ensuring the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate activity environments and equipment, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 B. I have 3+ years of experience in ensuring the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate activity environments and equipment, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 C. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in ensuring the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate activity environments and equipment, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 D. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in ensuring the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate activity environments and equipment, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 E. I have less than 1 year of experience in ensuring the preparation and maintenance of safe and appropriate activity environments and equipment.
 F. I have no experience in the above.
6. How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 A. I have 5+ years of supervisory experience.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 C. I have 1 to 3 years of supervisory experience.
 D. I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 E. I have no supervisory experience.
7. What size is the Youth Sports Program you have experience in managing?
 A. I have experience managing a large Youth Sports Program (200 youth and above).
 B. I have experience managing a medium Youth Sports Program (100 to 199 youth).
 C. I have experience managing a small Youth Sports Program (up to 99 youth).
 D. I have no experience in the above.
8. How many volunteers and coaches do you have experience in managing?
 A. I have experience in managing a large group of volunteers/coaches (100 volunteer/coaches and above).
 B. I have experience in managing a medium group of volunteers/coaches (26 to 99 volunteer/coaches).
 C. I have experience in managing a small group of volunteers/coaches (up to 25 volunteer/coaches).
 D. I have no experience in the above.
9. How many different sport seasons per year do you have experience in managing?
 A. I have experience in managing 4 different sport seasons per year.
 B. I have experience in managing 2-3 different sport seasons per year.
 C. I have experience in managing 1 sport season per year.
 D. I have no experience in the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected