Position Title
Engineering Equipment Operator (Road Construction Worker)- Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-571610-12789115-LL Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 25, 2025 to Thursday, September 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience or training needed to qualify for an ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT OPERATOR (ROAD CONSTRUCTION WORKER), WG-5716-10, positions. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.
1. From the description below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that most clearly and accurately describes your ability to perform the duties of this position, ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT OPERATOR (ROAD CONSTRUCTION WORKER), WG-5716-10, without more than normal supervision. (For a complete description of the required duties, see the DUTIES section of this announcement.) Due to the use of 120-day rosters, this period of experience may be completed within 120 days of the closing date of this announcement.
 A. I do not have the experience or the ability to do this line of work.
 B. I have vocational training or I have completed an apprenticeship in this line of work.
 C. I have the ability to perform the work of a ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT OPERATOR (ROAD CONSTRUCTION WORKER), WG-5716-10, under close supervision. I have limited experience to: Perform functions as cutting, moving, digging, grading, and rolling earth, sand, stone, and other materials and construct, maintain, and repair rigid and flexible pavements, roads, and runways, and operate boom crane(s). This type of work has only been completed under close supervision.
 D. I have the ability to perform the work of a ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT OPERATOR (ROAD CONSTRUCTION WORKER), WG-5716-10, under limited supervision. I have the experience and ability to Perform functions as cutting, moving, digging, grading, and rolling earth, sand, stone, and other materials and construct, maintain, and repair rigid and flexible pavements, roads, and runways, and operate boom crane(s). Knowledge of engineering equipment such as graders, tractors with bulldozer or angle dozer blades, front-end loaders, backhoes, trench diggers, and large industrial tractors with pan or scraper attachments; the different sets of controls and operation of equipment and attachments; the operation, capabilities, and capacities of boom cranes; and the crane's response to control changes. On routine assignments, I perform work independently.
 E. I have the ability to perform the full range of duties of a ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT OPERATOR (ROAD CONSTRUCTION WORKER), WG-5716-10, and I am consulted by other workers because of my expertise and ability to Perform functions as cutting, moving, digging, grading, and rolling earth, sand, stone, and other materials and construct, maintain, and repair rigid and flexible pavements, roads, and runways, and operate boom crane(s). Knowledge of engineering equipment such as graders, tractors with bulldozer or angle dozer blades, front-end loaders, backhoes, trench diggers, and large industrial tractors with pan or scraper attachments; the different sets of controls and operation of equipment and attachments; the operation, capabilities, and capacities of boom cranes; and the crane's response to control changes. Ability to use and maintain power tools, hand tools, and related equipment; to react quickly to hand and other signals from floor level personnel; and read and interpret instructions, blueprints, drawings, and sketches. I am considered an expert in this field.
CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
2. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected