Position Title
Supv IT Specialist (OPERATING SYSTEMS/CUSTOMER SUPPORT)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAJ6-25-12750278-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, June 23, 2025 to Sunday, July 6, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. .

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2. Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 A. Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 B. I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 C. I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 D. No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.
3. Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement
Assessment 1
1. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Performs cost analysis and studies various models of equipment for comparative analysis of performance characteristics and updates the equipment configurations used in end-user computing; Maintain and manage standard imaged software and coordinate to resolve standard image support issues; Develops and manages end-user policy and procedure documentation and written guidance.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position
In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. Carefully review the level descriptions (A to E) listed below. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.
2. Apply operating system updates and/or patches to servers in order to maintain or improve performance, security, and/or stability.
 A. I have applied operating system updates to a single server.
 B. I have applied operating system updates to site-level or group-level servers.
 C. I have applied operating system updates to enterprise-level servers.
 D. None of the above
3. Apply software updates and/or patches to systems or applications in order to maintain or improve performance, security, and/or stability.

 A. I have applied software updates to a single system.
 B. I have applied software updates to site-level or group-level systems.
 C. I have applied software updates to enterprise-level systems.
 D. None of the above.
4. Develop documentation, instruction, supplemental materials, or aids to guide users of an operating system.

 A. I have assisted with developing documentation, instruction, supplemental materials, or aids to guide users of an operating system.
 B. I have independently developed documentation, instruction, supplemental materials, or aids to guide users of an operating system.
 C. I have led the development of documentation, instruction, supplemental materials, or aids to guide users of an operating system.
 D. I have served as a reviewer or approver of documentation, instruction, supplemental materials, or aids to guide users of an operating system.
 E. None of the above.
5. Develop procedures to ensure hardware and/or software are managed in accordance with established policy.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have adhered to established procedures to ensure hardware and/or software is managed in accordance with established policy.
 C. I have contributed to the development of procedures to ensure hardware and/or software is managed in accordance with established policy.
 D. I have developed or led the development of procedures for ensuring hardware and/or software is managed in accordance with established policy.
 E. None of the above.
6. Which of the following project or program management functions have you performed in support of the IT life cycle process? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Developed project plans or schedules
 B. Estimated resource requirements
 C. Defined milestones or deliverables
 D. Monitored project progress or resources
 E. Reported on accomplishments
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
7. Determine the interoperability of hardware and/or software technologies to evaluate their usefulness, applicability to the organization, and viability with current systems.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have assisted in determining if hardware or software technologies are compatible with an organization's current systems.
 C. I have independently determined if hardware or software technologies are compatible with an organization's current systems.
 D. I have led teams to determine if hardware or software technologies are compatible with an organization's current systems.
 E. None of the above.
8. Establish metrics and measures to be used for future IT tests or assessments.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have assisted in the collection or compilation of metric information for use in IT tests or assessments.
 C. I have established metrics for a single server for use in IT tests or assessments.
 D. I have established metrics for multiple servers for use in IT tests or assessments.
 E. I have established metrics for enterprise-level servers for use in IT tests or assessments.
 F. None of the above.
9. Perform operational testing to minimize defects in an organization's software systems.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have assisted with operational testing processes to minimize defects in an organization's software systems.
 C. I have independently performed operational testing processes to minimize defects in an organization's software systems.
 D. I have led a team that performed operational testing processes to minimize defects in an organization's software systems.
 E. None of the above.
10. Which of the following tests have you used to evaluate IT products or services? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Unit testing
 B. Integration testing
 C. Functional testing
 D. System testing
 E. Stress testing
 F. Performance testing
 G. Usability testing
 H. Acceptance testing
 I. Regression testing
 J. Assembly testing
 K. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this itern).
11. Back up and/or restore information systems to reduce loss of data and potential impact on operations.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have backed up or restored a single server or operating system.
 C. I have backed up or restored multiple servers or operating systems.
 D. I have implemented a backup or restoration solution for an entire site or office.
 E. None of the above.
12. Migrate data across IT systems, maintaining continuity and security of data during system upgrades.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have migrated data from a single system in preparation for a system upgrade or modification.
 C. I have migrated data from multiple systems in preparation for a system upgrade or modification.
 D. I have migrated data from enterprise-wide systems in preparation for a system upgrade or modification.
 E. I have developed an organization strategy for data migration in preparation for a system upgrade or modification.
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this itern).
13. Resolve urgent system performance issues to improve the functionality of IT systems.
 A. I have resolved urgent issues that affected a single system's performance.
 B. I have resolved urgent issues that affected site-level or group-level system performance.
 C. I have resolved urgent issues that affected enterprise-level system performance.
 D. None of the above.
14. Which of the following items do you have experience configuring for an agency or organization? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Desktops/laptops
 B. Thin clients
 C. Tablets
 D. Smart phones
 E. Mobile devices (other than tablets or smartphones)
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
15. Deploy an operating system or server to meet organizational IT and business solution needs.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have assisted with the deployment of an operating system or server.
 C. I have independently deployed an operating system or server.
 D. I have advised others regarding how to deploy an operating system or server.
 E. I have led a team that deployed an operating system or server.
 F. None of the above.
16. Develop operating system standard operating procedures (SOPs) to apply standardization to make sure systems are configured uniformly across the enterprise.
 A. I have used operating system SOPs to ensure operating systems are uniformly configured.
 B. I have assisted with developing operating system SOPs to ensure operating systems are uniformly configured.
 C. I have led the development of or independently developed a team-level operating system SOP to ensure operating systems are uniformly configured.
 D. I have led the development of or independently developed an enterprise­ level operating system SOP to ensure operating systems are uniformly configured.
 E. None of the above.
17. Diagnose issues with operating systems to implement solutions.
 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have diagnosed operating system issues affecting a single server.
 C. I have diagnosed operating system issues affecting site-level or group-level servers.
 D. I have diagnosed operating system issues affecting enterprise-level servers.
 E. None of the above.
18. Use monitoring tools to report on an operating system's performance.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have used monitoring tools to report on the performance of an operating system that affects a single server.
 C. I have used monitoring tools to report on the performance of an operating system that affects site-level or group-level servers.
 D. I have used monitoring tools to report on the performance of an operating system that affects enterprise-level servers.
 E. None of the above.
19. Which of the following server operating systems do you have experience in supporting? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Windows Server 2008
 B. Windows Server 2012
 C. Windows Server 2016
 D. Red Hat
 E. Linux (other than Red Hat)
 F. Solaris
 G. HP-UX
 H. AIX
 I. z/OS
 J. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
20. Coordinate the delivery of IT customer support solutions (e.g., delivery of new hardware, software upgrades, system maintenance) to minimize interruption to service operations.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have participated in service roll-outs for customer support by coordinating with the customer directly.
 C. I have participated in service roll-outs for customer support by coordinating with the customer and Information Technology Team leadership.
 D. I have led the coordination effort to deliver approved service roll-outs for customer support.
 E. None of the above.
21. Develop local procedures for improving customer IT systems to minimize interruptions.
 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have implemented procedures developed by others to minimize interruptions.
 C. I have participated in the development of guidance for procedures to minimize interruptions.
 D. I have developed guidance for procedures to minimize interruptions.
 E. None of the above.
22. Develop mitigation plans for recurring IT issues.
 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have gathered data on recurring IT issues for the development of a mitigation plan.
 C. I have gathered data and analyzed the information to determine underlying causes of recurring IT issues.
 D. I have gathered data, analyzed the information to determine underlying causes, and used this analysis to create guidance on how to minimize loss of operations or functioning on recurring IT issues.
 E. None of the above.
23. I have provided support for the following products to meet customer needs. (Select all that apply.)

 A. Desktop Operating Systems
 B. Network Operating Systems
 C. Office Productivity Suites
 D. Web-based Applications
 E. Cloud Systems
 F. Virtual Desktop Systems
 G. Server Operating Systems
 H. Mobile Platforms
 I. Remote Administration Tools
 J. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this item).
24. Resolve problems (e.g., hardware, software, user training) in response to customer incidents.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have identified customer problems for a colleague or supervisor to resolve.
 C. I have diagnosed and resolved documented recurring customer problems.
 D. I have instructed others or developed guidance for resolving recurring problems.
 E. I have diagnosed and resolved unprecedented customer problems where guidance did not exist.
 F. I have performed trend analysis and identified root causes to prevent further incidents.
 G. None of the above.
25. Use a ticketing system (e.g., Information Technology Service Management) or commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) solution to manage customer reported incidents (e.g., problem tracking, resolution).

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have logged customer reported incidents into a ticketing system.
 C. I have trained others in the use of a ticketing system to manage customer reported incidents.
 D. I have corrected mistakes in a ticketing system or used advanced analytics (e.g., trend analysis, pattern detection) to manage customer reported incidents.
 E. I have developed local processes or procedures to enhance the use of the ticketing system to ensure quality and accuracy of data.
 F. None of the above.
26. Develop strategies or procedures that ensure optimization in the installation, configuration, or maintenance of a customer's hardware or software.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have participated on a team to develop strategies or procedures to optimize a customer's hardware or software.
 C. I have led a team to develop strategies or procedures to optimize a customer's hardware or software.
 D. I have approved or rejected the strategies or procedures developed by others to optimize a customer's hardware or software.
 E. None of the above.
27. Ensure new software or hardware meet IT configuration standards.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have reviewed new software or hardware to see how they compare to baseline configurations.
 C. I have reviewed new software or hardware to see how they compare to baseline configurations at multiple milestones through the system rollout.
 D. I have reviewed new software or hardware to see how they compare to baseline configurations at multiple milestones through the system rollout, and tracked changes made during implementation.
 E. I have reviewed new software or hardware to see how they compare to baseline configurations at multiple milestones through the system rollout, tracked changes made during implementation, and maintained system configurations in production to adhere to current baseline levels.
 F. None of the above.
28. Evaluate IT configurations to determine necessary enhancements, upgrades, or modifications.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have reviewed current IT configurations and identified possible enhancements, upgrades, or modifications.
 C. I have reviewed current IT configurations; identified possible enhancements, upgrades, or modifications; and proposed a plan to improve IT configurations based on findings.
 D. I have reviewed IT configuration proposals and exercised decision-making authority for implementation.
 E. None of the above.
29. Manage IT configurations to prevent information system vulnerabilities.
 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have managed IT configurations of a single program or application to prevent information system vulnerabilities.
 C. I have managed IT configurations of a portfolio of programs or applications to prevent information system vulnerabilities.
 D. I have managed IT configurations at the enterprise level to prevent information system vulnerabilities.
 E. None of the above.
30. Examine IT requirements to determine the type of documentation needed for a project.

 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have gathered IT requirements information for a colleague or supervisor to examine.
 C. I have examined IT requirements to determine the type of documentation needed for a project and presented the recommendation(s) to a colleague or supervisor.
 D. I have examined IT requirements to determine the type of documentation needed for a project and presented the recommendation(s) to senior-level management.
 E. None of the above.
31. Follow procedures to ensure hardware or software transactions are managed in accordance with established policy.
 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have adhered to established procedures to ensure hardware or software is managed in accordance with established policy.
 C. I have developed procedures for ensuring hardware or software is managed in accordance with established policy.
 D. I have reviewed the compliance of other personnel with inventory management procedures.
 E. None of the above.
32. Participate in feasibility studies to determine which hardware or software best meets present and future needs.
 A. I have had education or training on this task.
 B. I have contributed to a study to determine which hardware or software best met present and future needs.
 C. I have led a study to determine which hardware or software best met present and future needs.
 D. None of the above.
33. Which of the following third party or contracting-related activities have you carried out to provide IT support to customers? (Select all that apply)
 A. Worked with third party or contract personnel
 B. Evaluated proposals from third party or contract personnel
 C. Established performance metrics for third party or contract personnel
 D. Evaluated performance of third party or contract personnel against established metrics
 E. Served as a contracting officer's technical representative
 F. None of the above (if selected, be sure this is the ONLY response selected for this itern) .
34. From the list below, select the response which corresponds to the highest level of education you have achieved. Education claimed may be verified upon selection. If you do not possess or unable to provide proof of education claimed, you may be found ineligible.
 A. Less than 2 Years of College
 B. Associate's Degree OR Two Years College (successfully completed at least 60 semester or 90 quarter hours)
 C. Bachelor's Degree OR Four Years College (successfully completed at least 120 semester or 180 quarter hours)
 D. Master's Degree OR Above
35. Have you received an honorary or monetary award from your employer (government civilian, military, or private sector) during the last 3 years?

 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected