Position Title
Deputy Chief Financial Officer
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
25-MINT-12796229 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Monday, September 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency covered by an OPM Interchange agreement that conveys noncompetitive eligibility?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Current Federal employee serving on a VRA appointment
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you eligible to be appointed under the Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointing Authority based on any of the following categories?
You are the spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces.
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status, and you have not re-married.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)

 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a former federal employee that has been separated for at least one full year and is eligible to be non-competitively reinstated to a higher grade or full-performance level than which you left federal employment?(Note: you MUST provide:  1) a copy of your separation SF-50 (the "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2"); AND 2) the last performance appraisal you received from your federal employment which shows at least a fully successful rating.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
9. Are you eligible under any other miscellaneous appointing authority not listed thus far, such as (but not all inclusive to):
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; 
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee; or 
Foreign overseas employee or eligible family member of former overseas employee
 
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=MiscellaneousAuthoritiesNotRegulated .  
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status. 

For more information on Foreign overseas employment please review the following: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#NontemporaryForeignService or https://www.state.gov/global-community-liaison-office/family-member-employment/family-member-employment-in-the-d-c-area/non-competitive-eligibility-nce/#NCE5




 A. Yes
 B. No
10. Are you eligible for consideration as a Peace Corps, VISTA, or Action volunteer?  If you select this option, you are required to provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting proof of employment from the appropriate agency with your completed application.

 A. Yes
 B. No
11. Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
6. Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.
7. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Specialized experience is 52 weeks of experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent, in either public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:

- Experience providing executive direction over day-to-day fiscal operations of a billion-dollar organization; AND
- Leading teams to ensure on-time execution of plans; developing and implementing policy programs; and developing, implementing, and tracking performance metrics; AND
- Monitoring and evaluating administrative functions, such as: accounting, procurement, facility management; AND
- Collecting and organizing financial and budgetary information for reporting, analysis, and execution of strategic and operational plans.
1. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. This position requires the incumbent to travel an average of 1-5 nights per month. Are you willing to travel the amount of time?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Please select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in a financial organization.
 A. I am considered an expert consultant in all of the following financial areas: understanding an agencys financial systems, reporting, and procurement processes of goods and services; coordinating the development of an agency's budget and strategic plan; and understanding an agency's enterprise risk management.
 B. I have experience in all of the following financial areas: an understanding of agency's financial systems and reporting; an agency's procurement processes of goods and services; coordinating the development of an agency budget and strategic plan; and, an understanding of enterprise risk management.
 C. I am knowledgeable about all of the following financial areas: an understanding of agency's financial systems and reporting; an agency's procurement processes of goods and services; coordinating the development of an agency budget and strategic plan; and, an understanding of enterprise risk management.
 D. I am knowledgeable about some of the following financial areas: an understanding of agency's financial systems and reporting; an agency's procurement processes of goods and services; coordinating the development of an agency budget and strategic plan; and, an understanding of enterprise risk management.
 E. None of the above.
4. Please specify where it is documented in your resume that you have experience in a financial organization. (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties). (limit 250 characters)
5. Please select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in planning, developing, and implementing program policy.
 A. I have planned, developed, and implemented program policy routinely and independently as a regular part of my job.
 B. I have planned, developed, and implemented program policy as a regular part of my job under supervision.
 C. I have assisted in planning, developing, and implementing program policy as a member of a team.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
6. Please select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in maintaining and promoting effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers, union officials or contractors.
 A. I have established effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers, union officials or contractors.
 B. I have led efforts to promote establishing effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, union officials, co-workers or contractors.
 C. I have worked on teams to promote establishing effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, union officials, co-workers or contractors.
 D. I have developed programs to promote establishing effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, union officials, co-workers or contractors.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
7. This position requires knowledge of a broad range of financial programs and activities. Select from the list below, the type(s) of written communication you have personally and successfully prepared under tight deadline pressure.
 A. Financial Audit Statement
 B. A-123
 C. Contracting
 D. Internal Controls processes
 E. Accounting Methodology
 F. Procurement
 G. Economic Trend analysis
 H. Custodial Assets
 I. None of the above
8. Please specify where it is documented in your resume that you have a broad range of financial programs and activities. (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties). (limit 250 characters)
9. Please select the statement that best reflects your highest level of experience in personally performing analytical tasks.
 A. I have developed new policies or regulations.
 B. I have recommended alternative approaches to draft regulations or policies.
 C. I have interpreted existing legislation, regulations, or policies.
 D. None of the above.
10. Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Check all that apply.
 A. Established priorities among multiple projects
 B. Established timelines for multiple projects
 C. Closed out projects
 D. Started up and manage projects through completion
 E. Established and monitor project progress
 F. Met deadlines
 G. Made resource decisions for competing projects
 H. Anticipated and resolve problems
 I. None of the above
11. Please select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in providing guidance and leadership to a team in establishing and maintaining internal control and enterprise risk management to achieve the objectives of efficient and effective operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
 A. I am routinely responsible for providing guidance and leadership to teams in establishing and maintaining internal control and enterprise risk management to achieve the objectives of efficient and effective operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
 B. I have led a team that has provided guidance in establishing and maintaining internal control and enterprise risk management to achieve the objectives of efficient and effective operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
 C. I have been a member of a team providing guidance in establishing and maintaining internal control and enterprise risk management to achieve the objectives of efficient and effective operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
 D. I have not performed any of the tasks above.
12. Please select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in providing policy and direction to ensure an effective property management.
 A. I am often consulted in policy and direction for effective property management
 B. I have experience in property management
 C. I have received training and education in property management, but no experience
 D. None of the above
13. Please select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in providing policy and direction to ensure an effective custodial asset management.
 A. I am often consulted in policy and direction for effective custodial asset management
 B. I have experience in custodial asset management
 C. I have received training and education in custodial asset management, but no experience
 D. None of the above
14. Choose the statement(s) that describe your communication / briefing skills you use as a regular part of your job to support organizational goals and Leadership.
 A. Regularly communicate organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities in oral presentations.
 B. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations.
 C. Brief stakeholders outside the organization on goals and objectives.
 D. Defend organizations position with third parties performing oversight review.
 E. None of the above
15. I have made formal or informal presentations in the following settings. Choose all that apply:
 A. Before decision-making groups
 B. To advisory groups
 C. At public meetings
 D. I do not have or do not meet any of the choices above
16. Choose all examples that apply to your experience analyzing data and information when preparing written reports. Check all that apply
 A. I have analyzed data or statistics to ensure validity, reliability, and absence of bias in written documents that I prepared.
 B. I have been the primary author of briefings, articles, studies, or reports
 C. I have reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences
 D. I have composed explanations or justification decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations
 E. I have analyzed trends and other information to: (a) identify issues, problems, challenges, opportunities, and options and (b) formulate strategies and recommendations that I incorporated into written reports that I prepared
 F. None of the above
17. Select the statement that best describes the highest level experience you have applying the concepts, practices, laws, and regulations of finance, including complete understanding of relationships between subordinate and senior levels of financial management?
 A. I have been responsible for applying the concepts, practices, laws, and regulations of finance, including complete understanding of relationships between subordinate and senior levels of financial management.
 B. I have worked with others and have applied the concepts, practices, laws, and regulations of finance, including understanding the relationships between subordinate and senior levels of financial management
 C. I have had education and training in the concepts, practices, laws, and regulations of finance, and am knowledgeable of relationships between subordinate and senior levels of financial management
 D. I have not performed any of the tasks above
18. Please specify where it is documented in your resume that you have experience applying the concepts, practices, laws, and regulations of finance. (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties). (limit 250 characters)
19. From the choices below, please choose which best describes your project management experience. (Choose all that apply):
 A. I have direct project management experience with an analytical tool like Microsoft Project
 B. I managed priorities through spreadsheet or table
 C. I oversaw staff that managed priorities
 D. I have been provided priorities and work schedules by superiors
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks
20. This position requires establishing and maintaining effective relationships with agency officials and personnel in the public and private sector. Choose the statement(s) that describe the services you provided as a regular part of your job. Choose all that apply.
 A. Made recommendations to senior level personnel on the best course of action based upon the review and analysis of documents, including the provision of summaries for such documents.
 B. Maintained and conducted effective contacts and acted as liaison with stakeholders regarding analyses you performed on substantive issues
 C. Participated in meetings with senior agency officials at the Director/Deputy Director level preparing policy analyses, background information, fact sheets /or other material concerning issues
 D. Responded verbally to inquiries or requests for information regarding topics for which you provided analyses to a variety of audiences
 E. None of the above
21. From the choices below, please select the statement which best describes the highest level of your subject matter expertise in financial compliance for process improvement and risk management with Department of Treasury (Treasury) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) requirements.
 A. I have been directly responsible for overseeing financial compliance with Treasury and OMB requirements agency wide.
 B. I have been directly responsible for overseeing financial compliance with Treasury and OMB requirements within a group.
 C. I have had training in and a general knowledge of Treasury and OMB compliance requirements.
 D. None of the above
22. From the following list, select all of the formal managerial, supervisory, or team lead duties you have performed as part of your official responsibilities in a position.
 A. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates
 B. I have set and adjusted priorities for subordinates
 C. I have prepared schedules for the completion of work
 D. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 E. I have been responsible for first line supervision or team lead to employees
 F. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work.
 G. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters
 H. I have interviewed candidates for positions
 I. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities
 J. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve
 K. I have not performed any of the above tasks
23. Please specify where it is documented in your resume that you have mastery level experience in planning work to be accomplished by subordinates; setting priorities; evaluating performance; giving advice, counsel and instructions; effecting minor disciplinary actions; and identifying developmental and training needs. (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties). (limit 250 characters)
24. Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in overseeing a budget for an agency, bureau or department.
 A. I have overseen a budget of over $4 billion
 B. I have overseen a budget between $2 and $4 billion
 C. I have overseen a budget between $1 and $2 billion
 D. I have overseen a budget between $500 million and $1 billion
 E. I have overseen a budget less than $500 million
 F. I have not overseen a budget
25. Please specify where it is documented in your resume that you have experience overseeing, directing or administrating a budget for an agency, bureau or department. (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties). (limit 250 characters)
26. Choose the statement(s) that best describe your skill in managing policies. Check all that apply.
 A. I have represented and negotiated the policy positions of officials related to program policies and procedures.
 B. I have designed, developed and implemented program policies, procedures, standards and practices in accordance with Federal statutes
 C. I have facilitated needed policy changes and modified processes in response to changing Federal policies and management assessments
 D. I have analyzed and interpreted policy guidance contained in legislation, regulations, and policy directives.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks
27. Choose all the statements that describe your experience managing, directing and administrating process improvement. Check all that apply.
 A. I have been responsible for administering and implementing process improvement.
 B. I have worked with others to implement process improvements
 C. I have had education and training in process improvement
 D. I have not performed any of the tasks above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected