Position Title
Loan Specialist (Agricultural)
Agency
Farm Service Agency
Announcement Number
FSA-12776319-MP-NM-WS Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, August 5, 2025 to Tuesday, August 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a current Farm Service Agency employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a Farm Service Agency employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current or former permanent Farm Service Agency County employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
9
11
2. Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Loan Assistant/Specialist (Agricultural) GS-1165 Position with the US Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency (FSA). Please respond to the following questions. Mark only one response for each question. Any experience claimed in response to the following questions MUST be supported by information in your application (resume or any other written format). This information must be SPECIFIC (i.e., duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments). Failure to provide this supporting documentation may result in receipt of a lower or ineligible rating. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience.).
1. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes the highest level of experience and/or education you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-09, Loan Specialist (Agricultural) work. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience.)
 A. I have at least one full-time year of specialized work experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service or private sector that demonstrated competence in agricultural loans. This experience may have been gained in such work as reviewing and passing upon applications for agricultural loans; servicing an agricultural loan portfolio of a bank or other loan association; or similar work. I have demonstrated knowledge of credit principles and practices to assess the fundamental soundness of individual loans by independently examining applications, supporting documents, and credit reports, and maintaining servicing activities on small agricultural loans. In addition, my experience demonstrated knowledge and understanding of farm operations, land use and value, production of various crops and livestock, and prices and markets in the farming area where loans are made and serviced.
 B. I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as finance, business administration, economics, accounting, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit, law, statistics, or other fields related to the position such as agriculture, agricultural economics, farm, livestock or ranch management, or rural sociology. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position.
2. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes the highest level of experience and/or education you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-11, Loan Specialist (Agricultural) work. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience.)
 A. I have at least one full-time year of specialized work experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service that demonstrated competence in agricultural loans. This experience may have been gained in such work as reviewing and passing upon applications for a limited number and variety of agricultural operations (i.e., single owner, single enterprise operation, farm equipment and machinery, etc.); servicing an agricultural loan portfolio of a bank or other loan association. In addition, my experience demonstrated knowledge and understanding of the technicalities of farm financing and credit and a general working knowledge of farm operations, land use and value, production of various crops and livestock, and prices and markets in the farming area where loans are made and serviced.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as finance, business administration, economics, accounting, insurance, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit law, real estate operations, statistics, or another field related to the position, such as agriculture, agricultural economics, farm, livestock or ranch management, or rural sociology. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. My education and/or experience are not described in any of the responses above.
3. This position requires authority to approve agricultural loans. Do you have, or have you had authority to approve agricultural loans? (Note: applicants must provide proof of loan approval authority).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Do you have delegated loan approval authority from the Farm Service Agency?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Do you have two or more years of experience in agricultural lending?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you have experience volunteering for or working with federal, state, county, private, commercial, or non-profit organizations in matters related to agricultural production? (e.g. working as a temporary employee or volunteer in a Farm Service Agency office, or serving as an officer or member in FFA, Stockgrowers, or other agricultural club or organization).
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Do you have hands-on experience in the field of agriculture? (e.g. management of a farm or working as a farm laborer).
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Do you have education in the field of agriculture? (e.g. completion of a degree in an agricultural business, agricultural sciences, animal science, crop science, and farm and ranch management).
 A. Yes
 B. No
9. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience planning, developing, directing and coordinating loan programs involving highly diverse and complex agricultural commodities and enterprises.

 A. I have reviewed and approved/disapproved loan cases which present complex problems and participated in the development and coordination of loan activities including liquidation of loans, acquisition management and disposal of property.
 B. I have performed work involving a variety of borrowers and broadly diverse agricultural commodities and enterprises. (More than eight types of commodities including both crops and/or livestock enterprises involving sole proprietorship, partnerships, and corporations).
 C. I have performed loan making/servicing on moderately diverse farm operations. (Four to six types of commodities including both crops and/or livestock mostly sole proprietorship's).
 D. I have determined soundness of loans under the farm loan program (i.e., credit worthiness of borrowers, repayment ability, estimated projected income, subordination's, non-disturbance clause, schedule repayments, reviews, leases, etc.)
 E. None of the above.
10. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience performing financial practices in relation to loan servicing.

 A. I have advised and assisted applicants, borrowers, farm customers and lenders with respect to liquidating assets or restructuring their business.
 B. I have provided technical advice to applicants and borrowers on the selection, expansion, and use of farms, land development, improvements, organization of farm and rural enterprises, and other related matters.
 C. I have evaluated financial and credit risk factors involved in granting, guaranteeing, or insuring loans.
 D. I have provided credit counseling and determined feasibility of borrower graduation to private lending sources.
 E. None of the above.
11. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to conduct evaluations and/or examinations of farm enterprises in order to support farm loan program objectives and ensures the lending organizations interest are protected.

 A. I have gathered, reviewed and analyzed financial statements, tax returns, past production history, economic conditions, real estate values, legal instruments, security requirements, environmental hazards, and partnership agreements, to approve/disapprove a diversified farm loan.
 B. I have appropriately referred cases to the State Office, U.S. Attorney?s Office or Office of General Counsel and recommended necessary legal or administrative action.
 C. I have analyzed individual loan dockets and farm business plans for adequacy and compliance with policies and procedures.
 D. I have reviewed and analyzed operational changes including releases, subordination's, adjustments, transfers, and similar matters.
 E. None of the above.
12. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your highest level of authority and responsibility for actions relative to acquisition management, sale or liquidation of agricultural real estate, equipment, or other collateral that was security for loans.

 A. I have reviewed and approved/disapproved liquidation of loan cases, acquisition management and disposal of property.
 B. I have analyzed complex appeals, settlement agreements, bankruptcies, foreclosures, acquisitions, and maintenance and disposal of inventory in order to ensure compliance with program regulations.
 C. I have recommended actions relative to acquisition management, sale or liquidation of agricultural real estate, equipment, or other collateral that was security for defaulted loans to restructure their business.
 D. I have limited involvement with loan liquidation, foreclosure, etc.
 E. None of the above.
13. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience applying farm loan program policy and the application of program requirements.

 A. I have applied knowledge of FSA policies and regulations to analyze integrated agricultural financial statements from farmers, partnerships, agricultural corporations and farm associations.
 B. I have applied a wide range of financial management principles and practices to analyze integrated financial statements from farmers, partnerships, agricultural corporations and farm associations.
 C. I have applied policies and regulations to make and service Farm Service Agency (FSA) direct and guaranteed loans.
 D. I have gathered and evaluated relevant financial and repayment information to determine whether payment adjustments were warranted.
 E. None of the above.
14. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience researching various laws and regulations in order to evaluate credit needs, terms and/or risks governing sole proprietorship's.

 A. I have ensured regulations are adhered to in complex cases such as bankruptcies, foreclosures, acquisitions, and maintenance and disposal of inventory property.
 B. I have conducted extensive reviews of numerous agricultural regulations and legislation to resolve a wide range of controversial and/or sensitive situations (i.e., economic conditions, real estate values, environmental hazards, etc.).
 C. I have researched regulations and analyzed credit needs/terms to determine whether a loan should be approved, continued, modified or liquidated.
 D. I have assisted borrowers/applicants in complying with loan requirements (i.e., promissory notes, mortgages, deeds of trust, security agreements, etc.)
 E. None of the above.
15. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience researching various laws and regulations in order to evaluate credit needs, terms and/or risks governing partnerships and corporations of a complex or controversial nature.

 A. I have ensured regulations are adhered to in complex cases such as bankruptcies, foreclosures, acquisitions, and maintenance and disposal of inventory property.
 B. I have conducted extensive review of numerous agricultural regulations and legislation to resolve a wide range of controversial and/or sensitive situations (i.e., economic conditions, real estate values, environmental hazards, etc.).
 C. I have researched regulations and analyzed credit needs/terms to determine whether the loan should be approved, continued, modified or liquidated.
 D. I have assisted borrowers/applicants in complying with the loan requirements (i.e., promissory notes, mortgages, deeds of trust, security agreements, etc.).
 E. None of the above.
16. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to gather and analyze financial data to make production and marketing decisions.

 A. I have been recognized as an expert in analysis and interpretation of financial data, involving broadly diverse agricultural enterprises which have a pervasive influence on the economy of a significant agricultural area.
 B. I have analyzed a variety of marketing approaches and recommended the most advantageous method(s) for a farm operation with a variety of agricultural commodities.
 C. I have analyzed farm loan program activity reports to identify trends and detect program weaknesses.
 D. I have appraised farms, leasehold interests, grazing areas or other improvements, considering such factors as value of farmland productivity, values of real and chattel property, and income potential.
 E. None of the above.
17. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your knowledge of agricultural production practices.

 A. I am knowledgeable of customary crop and livestock production practices such as typical costs of production (fuel, fertilizer, chemical, veterinary, seed, feed, repair, etc.) per unit, typical rates of production (yield or production per unit), accepted or normal tillage and crop rotation practices, proven livestock production practices, and normal health and disease control measures for the most prevalent enterprises.
 B. In addition to being knowledgeable of production costs, rates, practices, health and disease control measures, I am familiar with customary crop and livestock production practices, contract provisions, and performance expectations for specialty and integrated crop and livestock operations.
 C. I am familiar with Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) loan rates, Loan Deficiency Payment (LDP) rates/terms, and the current market price of livestock and commodities.
 D. Two or more of the above responses.
 E. None of the above.
18. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your knowledge of crop and livestock marketing alternatives.

 A. I have experience as an owner/operator of a farm operation and have conducted market research to obtain the maximum return from my production.
 B. I have provided advice on market availability and volatility for specialty crop/livestock enterprises.
 C. I have identified and recommended agricultural practices and marketing strategies.
 D. I have considered marketing alternatives offered by brokerage or similar firms, and I understand the risks associated with these marketing alternatives.
 E. None of the above.
19. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience in evaluating the managerial skills of farmers/ranchers.

 A. I am considered a technical expert, and area lenders, suppliers and others routinely refer farmers/ranchers to me for assistance in identifying managerial weaknesses and developing an action plan for overcoming farm management weaknesses
 B. I have completed numerous analyzes of complex and diverse farming operations to determine the managerial strengths/weaknesses and developed loan terms or borrower assessments to help customers become successful.
 C. I have provided loan supervision and oversight to individual and group borrowers to assist in maintaining compliance with loan requirements.
 D. I have recommended borrower training to customers and refer them to another agency/individual to assist in identifying and overcoming managerial weaknesses.
 E. None of the above.
20. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to maintain cooperative relationships and how you have recommended ways to improve access to programs through community outreach efforts and removal of barriers.

 A. I have improved access to agency programs through community outreach efforts and have maintained communication and cooperative relationships with producers, lenders, commercial and educational institutions, rural community groups, and other federal, state and local agencies.
 B. I have ensured that the civil rights of applicants/borrowers are protected and strive to meet the needs of socially disadvantaged and minority applicants and borrowers.
 C. I have attended public meetings with various groups and associations, and performed public relations and outreach activities.
 D. I have participated in diversity activities and community agricultural activities.
 E. None of the above.
21. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience in communicating in writing with agricultural lenders, agricultural organizations and the farming community and others.

 A. I have prepared appeal decisions documenting agricultural loan program policies and regulations and recommended necessary legal or administrative actions, as appropriate.
 B. I have prepared investigative reports, policies, procedures and briefings of a highly technical nature for supervisory review.
 C. I have written press releases to local media on new procedures, techniques and trends in the agricultural/financial management field.
 D. I have developed loan correspondence for collections, adjustments and negotiations.
 E. None of the above.
22. From the descriptions below, choose the response that describes your highest level of accomplishment for actions relative to serving as an expert, representing an employer or client at hearings or court proceedings pertaining to farm loan issues.

 A. I have insured regulations are adhered to in complex cases such as bankruptcy, acquisitions, maintenance, and disposal of inventory property.
 B. I have provided advice in agricultural bankruptcies, foreclosures, appeal cases, debt settlement, liquidation, voluntary conveyance transfer and assumptions.
 C. I have provided credit counseling and other services related to settlement of loans.
 D. I have worked with borrowers to negotiate settlements.
 E. None of the above.
23. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to communicate verbally with agricultural agencies, the farming community and others.

 A. I have framed and delivered oral communications in a manner that resulted in increased stakeholder buy-in and support of my proposed suggestions and/or solutions.
 B. I have adapted and tailored verbal messages to fit the background and level of comprehension of the above stakeholders (i.e., translated and communicated complex technical messages in a straightforward way without using jargon).
 C. I have verbally delivered information to the above stakeholders in a clear, concise, manner.
 D. None of the above.
24. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best demonstrates your ability to take the initiative and work independently.

 A. I have decided what work needs to be done and independently performed the tasks to accomplish work objectives.
 B. I have provided input and suggestions on what type of work needs to be done and independently executed the tasks to get the work done.
 C. I have independently performed tasks provided by a supervisor with minimal oversight.
 D. I have executed tasks provided by a supervisor with some help and guidance from others.
 E. None of the above.
25. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best demonstrates your experience in supporting change efforts.

 A. I have led change efforts and encouraged others to come up with new and improved approaches to solving problems.
 B. I have led a work change effort and have overcome resistance in order to improve a work process or system.
 C. I have provided input at work on how to effectively change a work process or system.
 D. I have been involved with projects in which I had to learn new procedures and technology.
 E. None of the above.
26. From the descriptions below, choose the response that best demonstrates your commitment to customer service.

 A. I have provided assistance to distressed producers experiencing difficulty with other agency officials.
 B. I have made recognizing employees who provide good customer service a priority.
 C. Listening to concerns of customers and resolving complaints and concerns effectively and promptly are regular and recurring parts of the jobs that I have performed.
 D. I have effectively addressed episodes of poor customer service provided by others.
 E. None of the above.
27. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 B. No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding "no" to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected