Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator
Agency
Office of the Inspector General for Tax Administration
Announcement Number
25-TIGTA-12792352 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, September 3, 2025 to Tuesday, September 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current TIGTA employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current TIGTA employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current TIGTA employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other
3. If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. No, but I have an approved exemption
 D. Not applicable
4. Are you a current Federal employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held. (limit 250 characters)
6.

Incumbents selected for Criminal Investigator positions are covered under special law enforcement provisions. This requires that applicants not exceed the maximum age for entry. The date immediately preceding an applicants 37th birthday is the final date for selection. The age restriction does not apply if you served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position covered by special civil service retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement.

If you are not subject to the age restriction because you have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above, you must submit an SF 50 (or equivalent documentation) showing service in a covered civilian law enforcement. OR If you are not subject to the age restriction because you are a preference eligible veteran, you must submit appropriate veterans documentation to establish that you are eligible for veteran's preference in order to waive the age requirements for this position.

Will you have reached your 37th birthday by the closing date of this announcement?

 A. I will NOT have reached my 37th birthday by the close of this announcement.
 B. I am not subject to the age restriction because I served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above.
 C. I am a preference eligible veteran and am not subject to the requirements above.
 D. I will be 37 or older by the close date of this announcement. I am not a preference eligible veteran and have not previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement (FLEO) position.
7.

Medical Requirements: The selectee must pass a pre-appointment physical examination and meet the physical requirements for this position as required by this agency. The duties of this position require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, hip, and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must be sufficiently intact and functioning in order that applicants may perform the duties satisfactorily. Sufficiently good vision and hearing are required to perform the duties satisfactorily. Because the duties of this position are exacting, responsible, and sometimes performed under trying conditions, the selectee must possess emotional and mental stability. Any physical condition that would cause the selectee to be a hazard to himself/herself, or others is disqualifying.

Do you meet the physical requirements as described above?

 A. Yes, I possess the requirements listed above.
 B. I do not possess the requirements listed above.
8. Which of the following defines your eligibility for this announcement?
 A. I am a current TIGTA employee on a career or career-conditional (permanent) appointment in the competitive service.
 B. I am a current TIGTA employee serving on a Veteran's Recruitment Appointment
 C. I am currently a Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program eligible. (I will provide the information required as described in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement.)
 D. I do not fit in any of the categories above and am therefore not eligible to apply to this announcement.
9. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Performance Appraisal
1. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent rating of record(i.e; final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management officials) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these requirements or if it is not dated within the last 18 months, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration.

Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirements, please provide a reason in the text box below. (This is required of all applicants regardless of prior federal service. "N/A" is not considered an acceptable response.)
Assessment 1
For GS 14: Specialized experience is one year (52 weeks) at the GS-13 level, or equivalent, that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Specialized experience includes:
* working on criminal and administrative investigations; AND
* leading a team of investigators, investigative analysts, or investigative specialists.
1. Do you have the specialized experience for the GS-14 level?
 A. I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-13 level as described above.
 B. I do not have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
2. Do you have working experience of the Privacy Act and the confidentiality provisions contained in section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Select the choice that best describes your experience in handling demanding and stressful situations in an office environment.
 A. I have no experience handling stressful and demanding situations.
 B. I have dealt with occasional periods of mild stress as part of my regular job duties.
 C. As part of my regular job duties, I have dealt on a daily basis with moderate stress (e.g. handling heavy workloads).
 D. As part of my regular job duties, I have frequently dealt with highly stressful situations as the standard work environment (e.g. heavy workloads, tight deadlines, rapidly changing priorities, crisis situations).
4. Select all the following that pertain to you and having the responsibility of being a Point of Contact.
 A. Weekly reports
 B. Monthly reports
 C. Quarterly reports
 D. Semi-annual reports
 E. Yearly reports
 F. Evidence custodian
 G. Liaison with Bureau offices
 H. Ad Hoc data calls
 I. Technical Law Enforcement equipment
 J. Group Firearms Instructor
 K. Divisional Firearms Coordinator
 L. Government vehicles
 M. Budget
 N. None of the above.
5. Select the response that best describes your experience with law enforcement/criminal justice theories, techniques, procedures and practices.
 A. I have conducted and coordinated (as Case Agent) investigations involving multi-jurisdictional and multi-defendant cases, or participated in major investigations involving criminal, civil, and investigative procedures.
 B. I have applied law enforcement techniques and procedures by serving as an investigator in undercover operations, and/or conducting and assisting in, surveillances, obtaining search warrants, and conducting searches.
 C. I have obtained and served search and seizure warrants at the Federal, State or Local levels; provided testimony as a witness before grand juries; and made arrests of violators.
 D. I do not possess the above-described experience.
6. Have you conducted Federal, State and Local investigations that extend into other agencies' jurisdictions?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Select the statement that best describes your experience planning, organizing, participating in and/or conducting criminal investigations and your experience researching and analyzing evidence, developing leads and witnesses and conducting surveillance and undercover operations.
 A. I have experience conducting investigations that require planning and coordination for investigations in terms of structure and coordination requirements.
 B. I have experience conducting investigations requiring the development of new or substantially modified methods to resolve anticipated problems.
 C. I have experience conducting investigations with modifications to established criteria for case planning and conduct.
 D. I have experience planning, organizing, participating in, or conducting criminal investigations.
 E. I have no experience related to the above items.
8. Select all of the law enforcement activities with which you have led.
 A. Making arrests.
 B. Conducting physical surveillance.
 C. Conducting consensual monitoring or other electronic surveillance.
 D. Drafting affidavits in support of arrest or search warrants, or criminal complaints.
 E. Participating in the execution of search warrants.
 F. Participating in undercover operations.
 G. Drafting and serving Inspector General subpoenas.
 H. Seizing and storing evidence.
 I. Conducting employee misconduct investigations.
 J. Conducting non-employee criminal investigations.
 K. Conducting bribery investigations.
 L. Testifying in court and/or administrative hearings.
 M. Determining when to administer Garrity, Kalkines, or Miranda warnings to interviewees
 N. None of the above.
9. From the list below, select the one that best describes your experience working with a team in conducting an investigative research and/or criminal intelligence assignment.
 A. Conducted research using your own internal databases and sharing with other members of a multi-agency task force.
 B. Under guidance of a senior level colleague, conducted fact finding for interpretation or projection of the data.
 C. Accessed information/data in response to requests for information.
 D. Contributed portions of work to larger studies.
 E. Used the work contributed by others in a study I was conducting.
 F. None of the above.
10. I have worked on highly technical projects that related to:
 A. Resolving legal or evidentiary problems.
 B. Addressing policy issues.
 C. Analyzing data and identifying patterns, trends, and/or program weaknesses.
 D. Law enforcement operations (arrests, search warrants, undercover operations).
 E. None of the above.
11. I have evaluated the efficiency or effectiveness of organizational programs or operations.
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Select the answer that best indicates your experience in expressing ideas effectively in writing.
 A. I have composed correspondence that is highly technical and sensitive; or written testimony that present highly sensitive and technical agency policies.
 B. I have prepared investigative reports; composed responses to requests for information about an investigation; and/or written summaries of recommendations discussed during meetings for documentation purposes.
 C. I have communicated, in writing, weekly updates of criminal investigations or assignments to an investigative supervisor.
 D. I have experience effectively expressing ideas in writing.
 E. I have no experience in expressing ideas in writing.
13. Have you provided input as a team leader on performance evaluations for other Special Agents?
 A. Yes
 B. No
14. Choose all statements which best describe your experience in effectively presenting information both orally and in writing.
 A. Providing informal verbal briefings to colleagues or supervisors.
 B. Making verbal presentations to prosecutors.
 C. Conducting formal briefings or presentations.
 D. Extracting and formulating information from multiple sources for comprehensive and informative briefings.
 E. Completing forms, reports and other written materials for internal distribution.
 F. Preparing external memoranda or other correspondence for distribution outside the agency.
 G. Preparing formal reports of investigation.
 H. I have no experience as described above.
15. Select the group or groups to which you have made oral presentations.
 A. Team members and/or other peers.
 B. Supervisors and/or managers in your organization.
 C. High-level officials in government or private organizations.
 D. Audiences outside your organization, including presentations to IRS employees, Tax practitioner conferences, public meetings, focus groups, etc.
 E. None of the above.
16. Select the response that reflects your experience dealing with others in difficult situations.
 A. I have dealt calmly and effectively with volatile situations, or difficult, distressed people while remaining professional and objective.
 B. I have been able to develop and maintain contact with individuals from varying nationalities and socioeconomic backgrounds; and engendered cooperation and acceptance from difficult subjects, continuing associations to derive useful information.
 C. I have worked well in group settings and am able to deal effectively with individuals from diverse backgrounds. I am able to maintain composure and control in difficult situations.
 D. I have no experience dealing with others in difficult situations.
17. Select the choice that best describes your experience negotiating and/or influencing others through oral communication.
 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial issues with a full range of internal and external individuals.
 C. I have participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems with individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have cooperative attitudes.
 D. I have conducted discussions or participated in workgroups in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups that are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect (e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation).
18. Select the choice that best describes your experience in supporting and implementing changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure.
 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have worked with my peers to implement changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure.
 C. I have disseminated information about changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure to peers and/or subordinates and explained the impact of these changes.
 D. I have disseminated information about changes in policies, procedures, and organizational structure, explained the impact of these changes to internal and external stakeholders, and ensured that the changes were implemented.
19. I have experience preparing the following written materials:
 A. Policy and procedures.
 B. Materials for briefings, meeting or conferences.
 C. Training materials.
 D. Investigative Reports.
 E. Inspection reports.
 F. Memoranda.
 G. Formal communications on organizational strategies, goals, and objectives for dissemination to employees.
 H. Prosecution Summaries.
 I. None of the Above.
20. Indicate all of the following types of interpersonal communication duties you have performed as a regular part of your job.
 A. Briefed management/customers on policy changes.
 B. Defended recommendations on controversial issues.
 C. Facilitated coordination of efforts between organizational entities.
 D. Acted as a technical representative.
 E. Served on panels, committees, or task forces on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 F. Regularly consulted by others on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 G. None of the above.
21. Select the choice that best describes your experience in presenting material in a training environment.
 A. I have no experience presenting material in a training environment.
 B. I have received training in instructional techniques but have not yet presented material in a training environment.
 C. I have been a member of the Instructor Cadre and have facilitated at the Training Academy, including presenting material during programs.
 D. I have been a training program manager responsible for the development and delivery of training, and assigning tasks to instructors/facilitators.
22. Select the choice that best describes the extent to which you have gathered and analyzed facts, determined the accuracy of the data, defined problems based on the data, and identified solutions.
 A. I have gathered data/information in preparation for analysis by others.
 B. I have gathered data/information, analyzed it, and summarized the results of my findings.
 C. I have gathered data/information, performed analyses, summarized results, and identified problem areas.
 D. I have gathered statistical data and narrative information, performed analyses, summarized results, identified problem areas, and proposed/implemented solutions.
 E. None of the above.
23. Select the choice that best describes the extent to which you have identified the impact and implications of alternative decisions on your program or organization.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have participated in brainstorming sessions convened to identify the impact of various proposals on a specific issue.
 C. I have developed and presented written analyses of the predicted impact on the organization at the national level of any of multiple alternative proposals, including justification for a recommended course of action.
 D. I have led a workgroup charged with determining the most viable option for resolving a matter, and made a formal recommendation to superiors.
24. Select the choice that best describes your experience in responding to Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries/complaints.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have drafted portions of responses for higher-level review on Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquires based on my understanding of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures.
 C. I have written responses/testimony and represented the organization on Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries based on experience with Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures.
25. Select the choice that best describes your experience in developing and interpreting policy on designated programs (i.e. Firearms, Tech, Evidence, New Investigative initiatives).
 A. I have no experience in developing and interpreting policy on designated programs.
 B. I have assisted and provided input to my superiors or subject-matter experts concerning the development of a new policy or the application of a new policy to a specific program.
 C. I have drafted and/or studied proposals for the implementation of new policies or provided recommendations for the application of policies to a specific program.
 D. I have developed, written, and implemented new policies that impacted a specific program or interpreted the program response to far reaching policy directives.
26. I have analyzed the results of investigations to:
 A. Detect particular patterns and trends and proffer an explanation.
 B. Identify program weaknesses and recommend solutions.
 C. Identify their significance.
 D. Establish appropriate courses of action for resolution.
 E. None of the Above.
27. Indicate all of the following which best describe your experience with managing and supervising employees.
 A. I have experience as a Supervisory Criminal Investigator, which included managing investigations and personnel resources (e.g. investigators, auditors, forensic specialists, etc.).
 B. I have experience acting for a Supervisory Criminal Investigator (ASAC).
 C. I have experience as a unit or team leader managing investigations and personnel resources to perform investigations.
 D. I have experience as a senior investigator managing nationwide investigations.
 E. I have none of the above described experience.
28. Select the choice that best describes your experience establishing and maintaining effective working relations outside of the organization.
 A. I have no experience in performing this task.
 B. I have provided information, resolved simple problems, questions, or complaints, and directed sensitive problems, questions, or complaints to the appropriate person/office.
 C. I have maintained relationships with IRS managers and employees.
 D. I have developed and maintained relationships with other federal, state and local law enforcement organizations.
 E. I have developed and maintained numbered Confidential Informants/Sources.
29. Select the choice that best describes your experience providing guidance on policies, techniques, and procedures in a law enforcement environment.
 A. I have no experience performing this task.
 B. I have experience leading discussions regarding policy and investigative techniques in group settings.
 C. I have experience providing guidance on operational policies, techniques, and procedures to law enforcement officers as subject matter expert in certain law enforcement areas.
 D. I have experience as a supervisor providing guidance to law enforcement officers in a wide-range of operational law enforcement policies, techniques and procedures.
30. Select all of the following documents you have reviewed and edited as a regular, recurring part of your job to ensure they were logical, conformed to technical standards and grammatically correct.
 A. Memoranda of Investigative Activities.
 B. Reports of Investigation.
 C. Investigative work plans.
 D. Administrative reports to management.
 E. Responses to Congressional or other interagency inquiries.
 F. Briefing papers for senior officials.
 G. Budget proposals or justifications.
 H. Employee position descriptions.
 I. Policy and procedures.
 J. Applications for Inspector General subpoenas.
 K. Project/Program planning proposals.
 L. Training presentations and other training material.
 M. Strategic Plans, GPRA goals and/or other strategic measurements.
 N. None of the above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected