Position Title
Senior Advisor for Readiness
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Defense
Announcement Number
SL-12773285-25-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 to Wednesday, August 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
This position has Conditions of Employment that must be obtained prior to your start date and maintained for the duration of this employment.
1. This position requires you to pass screening for illegal drug use prior to appointment and subsequent periodic drug screening thereafter. Are you willing to meet the drug testing requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires you to obtain and maintain a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (TS/SCI) security clearance. Are you willing to meet the security clearance requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position may require travel away from your normal duty station (both CONUS and OCONUS) on military or commercial aircraft. Are you willing to meet the travel requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Integrity Certification: Your responses are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents you submitted. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; and 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy. Do you certify the accuracy of your responses?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected