Position Title
Physician Assistant
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT254485701579HWR Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 16, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Physician Assistant position with the Department of Defense, Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Physician Assistant at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have graduated from a physician assistant educational program, accredited by the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) or its predecessors, at a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 B. I do not possess the education described above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2. The Physician Assistant occupation requires successful completion of the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants (NCCPA) examination. Have you successfully completed the NCCPA examination and maintained status as a certified physician assistant to include completion of all requirements for continuing medical education (CME) and re-certification? (Note: You must attach a copy of your certification.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. The Physician Assistant occupation requires a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. Do you possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States? (Note: You must attach a copy of your licensure.)
 A. Yes
 B. I do not meet the basic requirement above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0603 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 C. No
4. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Physician Assistant at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have at least one full year of work experience as a certified physician assistant equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes performing medical examinations or assessments of patients; ordering or interpreting laboratory or diagnostic tests; and prescribing medication.
 B. I have successfully completed a Doctorate of Physician Assistant Studies, Doctorate of Science Physician Assistant (DScPA), or equivalent degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a related health field, such as public health, allied health field, public health education, or related health science program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. I have the experience described in A AND the education described in B OR C. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected