Position Title
Nurse (Clinical/Ambulatory)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJG259927019598HW Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 8, 2025 to Monday, September 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
11
Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in a Nurse (Clinical/Ambulatory) GS-11 position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1. Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Clinical/Ambulatory) at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service
 A. I have a graduate or higher-level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained OR I have a degree from a Foreign Nursing School that is accompanied by an official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools certification.)
 B. I do not meet the basic requirement above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. I have degree or diploma from a professional nursing program approved by the legally designated State accrediting agency at the time the program was completed. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 C. I do not meet either requirement described above.
2. The Nurse (Clinical/Ambulatory) occupation requires a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; and you must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. Do you possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; and have passed the National Council Licensure Examination? (Note: You must attach a copy of your license.)
 A. Yes.
 B. I have not passed the National Council Licensure Examination as stated above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. I have an active, current registration as a professional nurse in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 C. I do not meet any of the requirements described above.
3. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Clinical/Ambulatory) at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have a bachelor's degree in nursing and at least one full year of professional nursing experience (equivalent to the GS-5 grade level) which includes conducting patient health assessments under supervision in outpatient or ambulatory settings; medication/Immunizations/allergy treatments administration, bedside patient care, specimen collection, wound care, and dressing changes. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 B. I have a diploma or associate degree in professional nursing and two full years of professional nursing experience which includes performing routine patient health assessments (vital signs, pain levels, mobility), medication administration, patient bedside care, specimen collection, basic dressing/wound care/dressing change, infection prevention). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have a bachelor's degree in nursing and eligibility under the Superior Academic Achievement provision. In order to be creditable under this provision, Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in Nursing. Superior Academic Achievement is based on: • (1) Class Standing - You must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR • (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) - You must have a grade-point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR • (3) Honor Society Membership - You may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achshonor.org/). (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or verification of class standing for further verification.)
 D. I have at least one full year of graduate education in a professional nursing educational program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. I have education AND experience as described in A, B, C, and/or D above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 F. I do not meet any of the qualification requirements above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. I have completed a professional nursing program and one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-5 level OR one full year of graduate education. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 G. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
4. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Clinical/Ambulatory) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have a diploma, associate degree, or bachelor’s degree in nursing from a professional nursing program and possession of at least one full year of professional nursing experience (equivalent to the GS-7 grade level or above) which includes delivering direct patient care, performing comprehensive health assessments, maintaining accurate documentation of intake and output, administering prescribed medication and providing patient education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 B. I have a master’s degree in professional nursing. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the experience AND education as described in A AND B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. I do not meet any of the qualification requirements above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. I have two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or a master's or equivalent degree from a professional nursing program. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
5. Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Clinical/Ambulatory) at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 A. I have a diploma, associate degree, or bachelor's degree in nursing from a professional nursing program and possession of at least one full year of professional nursing experience (equivalent to the GS-09 grade level or above) which includes delivering comprehensive care in ambulatory inpatient or outpatient settings; assess the effectiveness of nursing interventions for patients with diverse acute and chronic medical conditions, administered medications, and providing health education to patients and family member , as well as clinical guidance to healthcare staff. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 B. I have a PhD or equivalent doctoral degree from a professional nursing educational program or related medical science field. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the experience AND education as described in A AND B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. I do not meet any of the qualification requirements above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0610 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. I have completed all requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education from a professional nursing program. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
6. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected