Position Title
Physical Therapist - Inpatient - WEEKENDS
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12800694-25-AB Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 15, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Are you willing to accept the shift conditions as indicated in the announcement?
Saturday and Sundays are required 
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
11
12
2. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
3. I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the Basic Requirements and the Grade Requirements for this vacancy. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application. In describing your experience, please be clear and specific. We will not make assumptions regarding your experience.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The basic requirements for employment as a VHA Physical Therapist are prescribed by the Physical Therapist Qualification Standard - GS-0633. To qualify for appointment as a Physical Therapist in VHA, all applicants must meet the following:
1. Basic Education and/or Experience - Please select your highest level of education and experience from the options below.
(a) Bachelor's degree in Physical Therapy AND five (5) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist. -OR-
(b) Master's Degree in Physical Therapy AND two (2) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist.-OR-
(c) Doctorate degree in physical therapy.
**Individuals must be a graduate of a Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE) accredited college or university.

Foreign Graduates - Graduates of foreign physical therapy programs meet the requirements if they have a current, full, active, and unrestricted license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.

You must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application. The copy of Transcripts may be official or unofficial, however should contain Your Name, the Institutions Name, City and State as well as the Degree earned and the DATE the degree was conferred. In progress degrees are not eligible.  This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation. We cannot make assumptions regarding your education.

Do you meet the education and/or experience requirements as indicated above?
 A. I have a Bachelor's degree in physical therapy and five (5) years of progressively independent experience as an physical therapist.
 B. I have a Master's degree in physical therapy and two (2) years of progressively independent experience as an physical therapist.
 C. I have a Doctorate degree in physical therapy.
 D. I am a Foreign Graduate and possess a current, full, active, and unrestricted license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.
 E. I do not possess the required education and or experience required for this position.
2. Licensure - You must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia.

EXCEPTION: Non-licensed physical therapists (PT's), who otherwise meet the basic requirements, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate PT at the GS-11 grade level for a period not-to-exceed two years.

You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.

Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted license, to practice physical therapy in a state, territory, or commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia -OR- will you be fully licensed within the next two (2) years?
 A. Yes, I am fully licensed to practice physical therapy in a state, territory, or commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia
 B. No, I am NOT fully licensed. However, I am pursuing licensure and intend on becoming fully licensed within the next two (2) years. I understand I am only eligible for the GS-11 Temporary appointment.
 C. No, I am NOT fully licensed, NOR will I be able to obtain licensure within the next two (2) years and acknowledge my application may not receive further consideration.
GRADE REQUIREMENTS: Select the statements below that best describe your ability to meet the requirements for a Physical Therapist position at the GS-11/12 levels. Please refer to the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement for detailed information.
3.

GS-11 Experience, Education, or Licensure: No post-educational experience, education, or licensure is required at the GS-11 level beyond the Basic Requirements above.

(Non-Licensed PTs who otherwise meet the Basic Requirements may be appointed at the GS-11 level ONLY).

Do you meet the Basic Requirements to be eligible to be appointed at the GS-11 level?

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. GS-12 Experience, Education, AND Licensure: In addition to the Basic Requirements, a Physical Therapist at the full performance GS-12 level MUST be fully licensed -AND- possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 level. 

Do you possess ALL the GS-12 Grade Requirements for Experience, Education, AND Licensure?
 A. Yes, I am fully licensed as a PT and possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade.
 B. No, I do NOT possess ALL the required experience, education, or licensure to be appointed at the GS-12 level.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. GS-12 Knowledge, Skills, & Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the Basic Requirements, a Physical Therapist at the full performance GS-12 level MUST have demonstrated possession all of the following KSAs in their experience and on their resume:
Ability to make autonomous clinical decisions in a Direct Access environment. This includes ability to independently evaluate and treat patients who seek physical therapy services.
Skill in performing examinations and evaluations of individuals who have or may develop impairments, activity limitations, and participation restrictions related to conditions of the musculoskeletal, neuromuscular, cardiovascular, pulmonary, and/or integumentary systems while considering the effects attributable to unique psychosocial and environmental factors.
Ability to interpret findings from examination and evaluation, select appropriate test and measures, and integrate findings into the physical therapy plan of care for the full range of patient populations.
Ability to establish a diagnosis within the scope of physical therapy and identify the appropriate rehabilitation intervention, including referral to another provider for further consultation as clinically indicated.
Ability to determine physical therapy prognosis by incorporating examination findings with the patient's preferences in order to set clinically appropriate treatment goals, optimize outcomes and maximize functional independence.
Ability to independently provide clinical oversight of Physical Therapy Assistants as well as students on clinical affiliations who are in Doctoral PT Programs or PTA Programs.

Do you possess and/or can you demonstrate ALL the KSAs at the GS-12 level?
It must be detailed on your resume to receive credit. Experience plus dates (month and year) of positions will be evaluated for credit.
 A. Yes
 B. No
REMINDER Current, permanent federal employees must submit recent SF-50 from the past 12 months which clearly shows current, permanent federal eligibility. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
General adjustment/Cost of living Increase
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
Promotions SF-50's at the highest grade held within the past year
HPT applicants will have to upload SF50s or documentation from their HPT time period to claim eligibility. 
Cash Award, benefit changes or time off Awards 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted.
Please check your electronic official personnel folder (eOPF) for your most recent SF-50. HR will not contact you for more info or documents. You can attach more than 1 SF50. All current, permanent federal employees applicants must ensure that they have included one or more SF50's showing current, permanent employment status in the past 12 months.
RESUME REMINDER: Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
* Updated and accurate duties (be as detailed as possible)
* Grade level (applicable for state or federal jobs)
* Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
* Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected