Position Title
Supervisor Merchant Marine Eval Spec
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
20250606-21166-9345-DB-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 22, 2025 to Sunday, August 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Are you a United States Citizen?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. To meet the minimum qualifications for the GS-0080-12 position, you must have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience at the GS-11 level in the federal service or an equivalent level. Select the statement below that best represents your specialized experience. Your resume and/or supporting documentation must clearly support your responses to the questionnaire. Failure to provide support for your responses may result in an adjustment to your final rating or you may be removed from consideration.
 A. Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-11 level or equivalent.
 B. No, I do not meet the above specialized experience requirement.
2. Which of the following best describes your experience leading teams, prioritizing goals and objectives to achieve mission requirements?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
3. Which supervisory duties have you performed?
 A. Planned/prioritized work balanced and assigned work of subordinates.
 B. Assigned balanced workloads to subordinates
 C. Established the workflow for an office
 D. Monitored the progress and completion of work
 E. Evaluated individual job performance of subordinates
 F. Made decisions on leave usage
 G. Developed position descriptions to hire personnel
 H. Counseled employees on methods to improve job performance.
 I. Administered disciplinary actions
 J. Resolved conflicts /problems among subordinates
 K. Promoted employees
 L. None of the above
4. It is preferred that applicants for this position be familiar with the USCG overall mission, objectives and programs, including the organization, management and leadership process by which the USCG accomplishes its missions. Please select one of the following:
 A. Yes, I do have knowledge of the USCG overall mission, objectives and programs, including the organization, management and leadership process by which the USCG accomplishes its missions.
 B. No I do not have knowledge as described above.
5. Do you have experience interpreting laws, regulations, and policy relative to merchant mariner qualifications and merchant vessel operations?
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Have you integrated Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) concepts, principles, and techniques?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience communicating with multiple stakeholders inside and outside your organization (e.g., program office customer, senior management, and internal offices)?
 A. I have experience in participating with others in a work relationship to develop information for a given purpose (e.g., developed materials for presentation by senior management).
 B. I have experience in researching, preparing and presenting materials in meetings or conferences to technical representatives of private industry/contractors and with representatives of the agency or other agencies.
 C. I have experience leading as the agency representative or spokesperson in meetings or conferences in working with agency technical staff and private industry/contractors to negotiate modifications or resolve issues.
 D. I have experience as the main agency spokesperson and/or decision-maker (subject matter expert) for analyzing and advising on changes in policies that affect program objectives, resolving controversial issues with technical staff that impact customer service, or negotiating solutions with technical staff and private industry/contractors on material related to data quality, data accuracy, and reporting function
 E. I do not have experience in this area
8. Which choices reflect your experience in customer service?
 A. I have coordinated/conducted meetings with managers and staff to ensure customers` needs are met.
 B. I have established priorities to meet customer needs.
 C. I have evaluated and modified processes to improve and ensure quality customer service.
 D. I have directly investigated and resolved customer issues.
 E. I have provided customer service that was positively recognized by a colleague, supervisor or the customer.
 F. None of the above.
9. Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals.
 A. Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships.
 B. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives.
 C. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties.
 D. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance.
 E. I do not have this type of experience.
10. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience presenting technical information in a clear and concise manner that was easily understood by the target audience?
 A. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
11. For which circumstances have you developed effective solutions?
 A. A routine technical issue that you have handled in the past
 B. A complicated technical issue that you have handled in the past
 C. A technical issue that you have never seen before on a piece of equipment with which you are familiar
 D. A technical issue that you have never seen before on a piece of equipment with which you are NOT familiar
 E. None of the above
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected