Position Title
IT Specialist (Customer Support/Help Desk)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12755005 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, June 27, 2025 to Thursday, July 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the position of IT Specialist (Customer Support)-Helpdesk for Command, Navy Region Northwest.  Please complete the below questionnaire to the best of your ability.
1. Incumbent is primary contact for troubleshooting problems, must be capable of quickly repairing or directing repair to on-site employees, ascertaining the extent of the problem and developing a timely resolution.  How many years of experience do you possess in this type of role?
 A. I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 C. I have less than 3 years of experience with the above
 D. I have no experience with the above
2. Incumbent maintains an inventory of both hardware and software associated with FFRP applications. Conducts inventories for software and hardware, as requested. Ensures the safeguard of navy property, reporting any shortages or misuse.  How many years of experience do you possess in the management of inventory?
 A. I have at least 5 years of experience in this role.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years of experience in this role.
 C. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in this role.
 D. I have less than 1 year of experience in this role.
 E. I have no working experience in this role.
3. Provides direct support to the activity managers and end users by inputting and monitoring data collection and data functions in support of the application software programs.  What level of experience do you possess maintaining databases?

 A. I have at least 5 years of experience in this role.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years of experience in this role.
 C. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in this role.
 D. I have less than one year of experience in this role.
 E. I have no working experience in this role.
4. Incumbent serves as the functional technical resource for the area network at assigned location.  How many years of experience do you possess in in troubleshooting system failures, hardware and software problems with servers, terminal lockups, and other technical issues?
 A. I have at least 5 years of experience in this role.
 B. I have 3 to 5 years of experience in this role.
 C. I have 1 to 3 years of experience in this role.
 D. I have no working experience in this role.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
5. This position requires travel among our three primary installations and satellite facilities of CNRNW including Naval Air Station Whidbey, Naval Station Everett, and Naval Base Kitsap.  Do you possess a valid drivers license and are you available for travel
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This person may be called upon to assist customers with problems outside of regular business hours, including evenings, weekends and holidays.  Are you willing to be available to assist as needed outside of business hours?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected