Position Title
Advanced Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - CT
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12804062-26-TM Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 4, 2025 to Wednesday, September 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Advanced Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - CT position with the Ralph H. Johnson VA Health Care System. Please answer all the following questions below and ensure that your resume corresponds with your answers based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Diagnostic Radiologic Technologists (DRTs) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Certification: All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), [or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable]. Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent [can operate independently] and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination. [In modalities that require advanced certification, to support their continued development, technologists who do not possess an advanced certification may be provided on the job training with oversight from a certified radiologic technologist.]

Do you hold a certification in general radiologic technologist by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R)?

NOTE: Applicants must submit a copy of the certification.
 Yes
 No


3.

NARRATIVE: Please provide the following information regarding your ARRT Certification. Otherwise, indicate N/A.



3a.

Certification Type:

Certificate ID Number:

City and State:



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Education: Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from [other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).]

NOTE: Assignment to the clinical program director requires meeting JRCERT minimum educational standards as noted in the assignment description.

Do you meet this requirement?

NOTE: Applicants must submit a copy of transcripts. Unofficial are sufficient.
 Yes
 No


5.

NARRATIVE: Please provide the following information regarding your education. Otherwise, indicate N/A.



5a.

Name of Institution

City and State

Degree

Major/Program

Month and Year conferred



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Grade Determinations. In addition to the basic requirements, you must also have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-09 level, directly related to the position being filled that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level.

GS-09 Assignment: DRTs at this level may have varying assignments including special and complex imaging procedures beyond the full performance level, clinical instruction, and basic QM type duties within the program. Regardless of the nature of the specific assignment, the work must be of sufficient scope and complexity to meet the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform at this level. The candidate must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs and demonstrate the potential to acquire the assignment-specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*): i. *Ability to balance the needs of patients and staff while still performing complex scans and procedures. ii. Knowledge of techniques for gathering relevant information from the medical record, significant others, and health care providers. iii. *Ability to assess factors that may contraindicate the procedure. iv. Knowledge of basic first aid and basic life support practices related to radiography. v. Knowledge of physical assessment, aseptic techniques, intravenous methods and techniques and universal precautions. vi. Knowledge of pre-procedural, procedural, and post-procedural care of patients.

Advanced Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist, GS-10.

Employees are trained to work in one or more difficult and complex modalities performing procedures related to these modalities as well as performing general diagnostic procedures. At this grade level, any assignment in a single modality must demonstrate significant complexity. Such assignments are unique, perhaps with expert specialization in complex areas of radiologic technology, Mammography Quality Standards Act (MQSA) regulations, and intermediate QM type duties within the program. The candidate must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs:
Knowledge of radiation protection standards, devices and techniques, including concepts of accumulated dosage, dose monitoring, and genetic changes.
Ability to utilize advanced imaging software that supports complex imaging programs and recognize changes in equipment and procedures that might result in increased exposures, and ability to recommend methods to prevent such exposures.
Knowledge of basic physics including concepts of energy, electric power, magnetic fields, and properties of x-ray, to understand the operation of the equipment.
Knowledge and skill in positioning of patients for a wide variety of highly complex imaging (CT, MRI, IR, ultrasound, mammography) studies.]

Do you have the specialized experience and KSAs demonstrated in your resume that's listed above?
 Yes
 No


Transcript Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application. Unofficial is sufficient. NOTE: You must submit transcripts (unofficial is sufficient) AND a certification and/or license with your application.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙