Position Title
Equal Employment Specialist
Agency
Office of the Secretary
Announcement Number
CCLQ-12816353-26-LA Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 6, 2025 to Thursday, November 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the assessment, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
To qualify for EEO Specialist at the GS-7 grade level, I possess:
 Specialized Experience: One year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-5) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience include: (1) Maintaining EEO files and databases on a routine and timely basis; (2) Transcribing EEO claims or similar information in an automated tracking system; and (3) Drafting routine EEO correspondence to ensure case files are properly organized, recorded timely and secured.
 Education: Bachelor's degree with superior academic achievement, or one full year of graduate education in a related field.
 Combination of Experience and Education: combination of specialized experience and 4-years of post high-school education leading to a bachelor's degree that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position.
 None of the above.


2.
To qualify for EEO Specialist at the GS-9 grade level, I possess:
 Specialized Experience: one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-7) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience include: (1) Conducting interviews with personnel regarding allegations of EEO infractions; (2) Preparing clear and concise written correspondence of EEO counselor reports; and (3) Utilizing internal software systems to create EEO inquires or EEO cases.
 Education: a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or a LL.B. or J.D., if related that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position.
 Combination of Education and Experience: a combination of specialized experience and education beyond one full year of graduate level education.
 None of the above.


3.
To qualify for EEO Specialist at the GS-11 grade level, I possess:
 Specialized Experience: one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-9) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience include: (1) Conducting in-depth interviews with personnel to gather and analyze information related to allegations of discrimination, ensuring accuracy, confidentiality, and adherence to EEOC guidelines; (2) Advising management and aggrieved parties on rights, responsibilities, and complaint processing procedures under EEOC laws and agency policies; and (3) Providing technical advice to office personnel regarding EEO complaint processes.
 Education: a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.
 Combination of Education and Experience: a combination of specialized experience and education beyond a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙