Position Title
DECKHAND
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDB-25-12815916-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 15, 2025 to Wednesday, October 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Deckhand position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Deckhand duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties. I am consulted by other employees or in difficult situations regarding performance of the following duties: Handling mooring and towing lines during docking, mooring and departure operations. Operating engines or winches controlling anchor or deck equipment including attachments for cranes, hooks, chains, and slings on falls. Performing light rigging. Uses standard signals to signal crane operator for placing loads. Performs general vessel maintenance duties and keeps boat in ship shape condition. Makes general repairs aboard the vessels to include repairs to machinery and equipment. Operates auxiliary launch or other small boats. I follow safety and health requirements for operations aboard vessel, preventive maintenance checks and services of deck equipment and safely operate all deck equipment.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of the following duties with minimal supervision: Perform handling of mooring and towing lines. Operates engines and winches. Performs general vessel maintenance duties. Operates auxiliary launch or other small boats. Follows safety and health requirements aboard the vessel and makes general repairs aboard the vessel.
 I have the ability to perform some tasks including the majority of the following duties under close supervision: the ability to perform the full range of duties of a Deckhand, in situations that require more than ordinarily skills and care, with close supervision such as making minor repairs of machinery, handles roping for towing, utilizes various tools, prepares paint surfaces to be painted. Operates small boats. Keeps lines, tools, paint brushes, etc clean and in proper places.
 I have the ability to operate simple manual equipment. I have the ability to identify and select hand tools to give assistance on a job (e.g. hammers, saws, drills, paint brushes, scrapers, sanders, etc.)
 I have the ability to perform simple maintenance, or I have received training on maintenance.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
 Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙