Position Title
Consumer Safety Inspector
Agency
Food Safety and Inspection Service
Announcement Number
FSIS-26-MCE-12813802-JJD Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 10, 2025 to Monday, October 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING CAREFULLY. Applicants will be referred to all grade levels at or above the one selected for which they are qualified. Not selecting the lowest grade announced as your Lowest Acceptable Grade could limit your consideration for referral if, after review of your application, resume, and supporting documents, you are deemed not qualified for your selected Lowest Acceptable Grade. Selecting the lowest grade announced as your Lowest Acceptable Grade will not limit your consideration at higher grades.


1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
8
9


2.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. New Milford, CT
 B. Fort Plain, NY
 C. Lititz, PA
 D. Loganton, PA
 E. Mifflintown, PA
 F. Philadelphia, PA


3.
Potential Variation in Shift, Duty Location, and Amount of Travel:

Vacancy shift, duty location, and amount of travel may be frequent. I am willing to accept a position that includes the following (select all that apply):
 A. 1st Shift
 B. 2nd Shift
 C. 3rd Shift
 D. Rotating Shifts
 E. Varying shifts with frequent travel (50%-75% of the time)
 F. Varying shifts with very frequent travel (76% or more of the time)


4.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


5.
How did you learn about this FSIS position? Please select all that apply.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Social Media (such as Facebook, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Job Finder Site (such as Indeed, Monster, etc.)
 D. Job Board from School, College, University, or Alumni Organization (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity, 12Twenty, Other)
 E. Local Billboard
 F. FSIS-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event
 G. School-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event Sponsored by a School, College, University, or Alumni Organization
 H. FSIS Employee
 I. USDA Employee
 J. Friend, Family Member, or non-FSIS or non-USDA Coworker
 K. USAJobs Search
 L. Other


6.
Please share any additional details about how you learned about this position, especially if you selected "Other" in the previous question. If nothing to add, enter "N/A".


7.
Were you referred to apply for this position by a current FSIS employee?
 Yes
 No


8.
If you answered "Yes" to the previous question, please list the name of the current FSIS employee who referred you and their email address. Please only list only one person (if you list more than one it will invalidate the response):


9.
2-PAGE LIMIT ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - I understand that my resume cannot exceed 2-pages in length for the initial qualification determination. If my resume exceeds two pages, then I understand I will be removed from consideration.

For more information on what to include in your resume, see the "Required Documents" and "How to Apply" sections of the vacancy announcement.
 Yes
 No


10.
I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, performance appraisal may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the job announcement.

 Yes
 No


11.
DOCUMENT UPLOADS - I understand that each document uploaded must be less than 5MB and in one of the following document formats: GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, PDF, TXT, or Word (.DOC or .DOCX). For more information see the "How to Apply" portion of the vacancy announcement.
 Yes
 No


12.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions (6 items)
Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙