Position Title
Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12813131-26-GEJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 to Wednesday, September 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist), GS-0640-5/6, position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency-
Health Technician (HIS) candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and Education-
Experience. Completion of the Department of Labor Apprenticeship Program for Hearing Aid Specialists (Verification Documentation Required)
OR
Education. Successful completion of two academic years above high school that includes coursework related to the field: hearing science, human anatomy and physiology, hearing instrument science, gerontology, psychology or other general healthcare areas. (Copy of Transcript Required)

NOTE: There is no combination of education and experience which can be substituted for the basic requirements.

Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. (Copy of Transcript Evaluation Required)

Do you meet the experience or education requirements as listed above?
 Yes
 No


3.
Licensure or Registration. Individuals must hold a full, current and unrestricted license or registration to practice as a Hearing Instrument Specialist (HIS) in a state, territory, commonwealth or the District of Columbia.

Are you licensed or certified by a state, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia to practice as a HIS?
 Yes
 No


4.
Board Certification. Individuals must hold active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS).

Exception for Non-Board Certified Health Technician (HIS).
(a) Non-board certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for appointment, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate Health Technician (HIS) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405(c)(2)(B).
(b) Non-board certified individuals shall only provide care under the supervision of a licensed audiologist.
(c) Non-board certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until board certification is obtained.
(d) Temporary appointments of non-board certified Health Technician (HIS) may not be extended beyond two years or converted to a new temporary appointment.

Do you meet the board certification requirement or exception listed above?
 Yes, I hold and active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS).
 No, I do not hold a board certification from National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS), but I meet all other requirements.
 I do not meet the board certification requirement or the exception.


GRADE REQUIREMENTS


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
GS-5 Health Technician (HIS)
Experience: One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.
AND
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs.
(a) Comprehensive knowledge of computer systems and programs to perform a variety of tasks.
(b) Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the healthcare team, external relations, customer service and patient education.
(c) Ability to provide and receive guidance and technical direction.
(d) Ability to plan, organize, set priorities, work as a team member, and effectively complete assignments.
(e) Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
(f) Knowledge of general clinical policies and procedures in a healthcare environment.
(g) Skilled in the use of telehealth technologies for the facilitation of telehealth clinical encounters

Do meet the requirements for the GS-5 grade level as described above?
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-06, Health Technician (HIS)
Experience: One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
AND
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs.
(a) Knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy.
(b) Knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software.
(c) Skill in documenting patient procedures and patient devices.
(d) Skill in providing patient education for hearing aid use, to include assisting patient with hearing aid insertion, removal and hygiene (cleaning and disinfection).
(e) Ability to provide patient education and training regarding hearing loss and communication strategies for various listening situations.
(f) Ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aids, hearing assistive technology and patient care that is consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist.
(g) Ability to prepare patient, equipment, and/or environment for audiology procedures. (h) Ability to provide triage of patient telephone calls or audiology requests.

Do meet the requirements for the GS-6 grade level as described above?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title 
Month & Year start/end dates (e.g. June 2016 to April 2018)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙