Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist (Response)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-KR-12773274-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 31, 2025 to Monday, August 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for consideration under this job opportunity announcement. Please select YES to all eligibility question(s) which apply.

If you're uncertain you meet an eligibility, we suggest answering yes. Your application will only be considered under the applicable eligibilities you have selected. If you respond NO to all eligibility questions below, your application will not be considered under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will not be considered.
1. Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)

Are you a current or former FEMA Stafford Act employee eligible under the Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA)?

Current and former FEMA Stafford Act employees who can document 64 or more hours of paid time, per pay period, with no breaks in service* for 78 or more consecutive pay periods since August 1, 2014, are eligible to be considered for this Merit Promotion Job Opportunity Announcement. (*Note: A "break in service" is defined as 3 or more days in non-pay status, except as allowed under 5 CFR § 315.201(b)(3)(ii) for special circumstances such as military deployment, etc.).

To verify eligibility, you must submit: 
"Notice of DRRA Eligibility" provided by OCHCO.  If you believe you're eligible, but have not received your notice, please reach out to the HR Specialist listed in the announcement.
Your FEMA SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your appointment in the excepted service under the Stafford Act.  We recommend attaching a SF-50 which indicates your highest grade and step.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Current FEMA Employee

Are you a current FEMA employee who currently holds OR has previously held a permanent (not time limited) position in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action reflecting your permanent competitive status.  Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions.  You may need to submit more than one SF-50.  Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent (career) or 2 - Conditional: AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service
If you previously held a career or career conditional appointment, you must provide your current SF-50 and your SF-50 which shows competitive status eligibility.
Please do not submit an award SF-50, as it might not indicate your grade level and step.  
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. FEMA Employees Only Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
Are you a current or former FEMA employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 A. Yes
 B. No
4. Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 A. USAJOBS
 B. FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 D. FEMA.gov Careers Website
 E. FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 F. FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 G. College/University/Alumni Organization
 H. FEMA Employee Referral
 I. Other
2. Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
3. Are you a current FEMA employee?
 A. I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 B. I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 C. I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 D. I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 E. I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 F. I'm not a current FEMA Employee
4. Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)
6. Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 A. No
 B. Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.
Conditions of Employment
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. The following questions will be used for consideration of your application under this job opportunity announcement. Please select yes to all Conditions of Employment that you understand and agree too. Please review your responses for accuracy. Answers cannot be changed after the announcement closes.

1. If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 A. Yes
 B. No, but I have an exemption
 C. I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 D. Not Applicable
2. All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire, if after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.
1. Grade 13: Do you have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-12 level, as described in the vacancy announcement?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Please indicate where and when you obtained each of the specialized experience requirements listed in the Qualifications section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the area of specialized experience; (2) the place of employment; and, (3) the specific dates of employment the experience was gained in MM/DD/YYYY - MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Experience in developing and delivering presentations and training; ABC Company; 10/01/2016 - 05/15/2018.
3. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience communicating with stakeholders.
 A. I have briefed senior leadership on emergency management operating practices.
 B. I have communicated leadership priorities to team members.
 C. I have interpreted policy to provide guidance to external partners.
 D. I have reported team activities to leadership.
 E. I have facilitated situational awareness briefings to senior leadership to inform decision-making.
 F. I have provided feedback to leadership to improve emergency management operations.
 G. I have presented technical/complex information at formal conferences and/or committees.
 H. I have represented my organization at high-profile emergency management meetings.
 I. None of the above.
4. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience working with team members and colleagues.
 A. I have developed partnerships to guarantee policy and regulations are followed in field operations.
 B. I have worked with multidisciplinary project teams to execute emergency management programs.
 C. I have developed partnerships and collaborated with colleagues and government officials.
 D. I have cultivated relationships with both public and private sector entities.
 E. I have successfully maintained relationships with public and private sector entities.
 F. I have leveraged internal and external relationships to improve emergency management practices.
 G. None of the above.
5. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your ability to facilitate information sharing between emergency management stakeholders.
 A. I have briefed my leaders with real-time updates on information that was relevant to an emergency management situation.
 B. I have developed portions of reports that summarize relevant data collected for an emergency management situation.
 C. I have communicated information to external partners (i.e., people outside of my organization) that directly impacted the operations of an emergency response.
 D. I have assisted in the determination of the relevance of information to be reported to stakeholders (e.g., State, local, Tribal, territorial, private sector, non-governmental).
 E. I have assisted in tailoring the emergency relevant information communicated to audiences based on the factors that impact them directly.
 F. I have provided members of my organization/team with the background and context related to emergency management decisions.
 G. None of the above.
6. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience collecting and organizing information that directly relates to a constantly changing situation.
 A. I have monitored social media to collect information on a specific topic.
 B. I have monitored news sources to collect information on a specific topic.
 C. I have consulted with meteorologists, seismologists, hydrologists, emergency managers, or other disaster response specialists to determine the most consequential factors of a disaster.
 D. I have used geographic information systems and other mapping programs to analyze risk assessment information for emergency operations.
 E. I have directed others to collect information relevant to an emergency operations event.
 F. I have identified sources to collect information needed to inform an emergency management situation.
 G. I have integrated classified and unclassified source materials into operational/event summaries.
 H. I have searched databases to collect mission-relevant information.
 I. I have gathered real-time data during an emergency situation.
 J. None of the above.
7. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your knowledge of Federal, State, or local government structures, organizations, and functions as they relate to disaster response.
 A. I have worked in an emergency operations center or similar operations centers (e.g., command post, base camp) where duties required the collection and analysis of information to maximize response resource allocation.
 B. I have assisted in the coordination with State Emergency Operations Centers.
 C. I have interfaced with other operations centers or command centers during disaster response.
 D. I have served in a position to interface with other operations centers, command centers, intelligence and law enforcement agencies, or other critical organizations to accomplish emergency response.
 E. I have applied the National Response Framework principles (e.g., NIMS/ICS).
 F. I have worked in an operational environment with constantly changing requirements that made it necessary for me to change a course of action.
 G. I have worked in a high stress environment that required me to make decisions that impacted emergency response operations.
 H. None of the above.
8. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your technical competencies concerning emergency management preparedness initiatives.
 A. I have provided guidance to internal and external customers concerning routine emergency planning and preparedness initiatives.
 B. I have knowledge of qualitative methods sufficient to solve problems and challenges of considerable scope.
 C. I have the ability to lead a team or participate in a team in expansive studies with multiple subject matter specialists.
 D. I have evaluated difficult issues involving agency or department programs, policies, processes, and management principles.
 E. I have used analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to assess program development to improve organizational efficiency.
 F. I have conveyed policy or concepts to technical or non-technical partners with demonstrated clarity and logic.
 G. I have obtained cooperation of others while defending findings of peers or management officials.
 H. None of the above.
9. Choose the statement(s) that describes your communications/interpersonal skills experience.
 A. I have interacted with personnel at all levels in the organization to improve a process
 B. I am able to concisely convey to others the technical details of a problem, description of a process or system, or provide fact-based recommendations as needed
 C. I have obtained, clarified, or provided facts or technical information regarding property management practices or procedures to internal and/or external customers and stakeholders
 D. I have responded to questions, and taking action to ensure satisfactory services is provided
 E. I have constructively and appropriately handled conflict and resolved problems
 F. None of the above
10. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) the communication activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis at work.
 A. I have met with outside organizations, executive officials, clients, or customers to present technical information.
 B. I have represented a business line or organization at meetings as a subject matter expert.
 C. I have responded to complex requests from colleagues, managers, or clients.
 D. I have acted as primary liaison to another unit, department, or organization.
 E. I have prepared final responses to public inquiries.
 F. None of the above.
11. Select all applicable activities from the following list that you have regularly performed and which demonstrate your skill in developing and enhancing working partnerships and resolving issues.
 A. Provide frequent briefings to higher-level authority on issues and recommend solutions to problems.
 B. Facilitate group sessions (i.e. group feedback sessions, focus groups, user workshops).
 C. Prepare and present technical briefings and/or training activities to a variety of audiences.
 D. Work closely with managers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, or develop improvements.
 E. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations.
 F. Conduct meetings to plan, coordinate, consult on work efforts, or resolve issues. This would include making presentations to influence individuals or groups who are resistant to agency or program positions or have conflicting agendas.
 G. Represented an organizational program in discussions with individuals or groups who may be skeptical or in disagreement and require skill to influence, motivate, question or otherwise gain the desired outcome.
 H. None of the above.
12. From the list below, select the type(s) of customer with whom you have experience maintaining customer relationships.
 A. I have maintained customer relationships with representatives from other Federal Agencies.
 B. I have maintained customer relationships with the general public.
 C. I have maintained customer relationships with senior executives.
 D. I have maintained customer relationships with mid-level managers
 E. I have maintained customer relationships with internal customers.
 F. I have maintained customer relationships with faith-based groups.
 G. I have maintained customer relationships with officials from volunteer organizations.
 H. I have maintained customer relationships with elected officials.
 I. None of the above.
13. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your typical approach in providing services and/or expertise to internal and external persons, organizations or entities.
 A. I respond to inquiries and requests in a timely and thorough fashion.
 B. I anticipate customer/client needs and proactively reach out to offer suggestions.
 C. I prepare/present briefings for internal management or external partners.
 D. I prepare to inquiries and requests for management.
 E. I prepare and implement training or educational opportunities for internal and external persons, organizations or entities.
 F. None of the above.
14. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience representing your organization in briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 A. I have attended inter-organization or inter-agency committee meetings with a senior official.
 B. I have represented an organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences with other interested parties (e.g., peers, colleagues, members of professional organizations) to share information.
 C. I have represented an organization at seminars or workshops.
 D. I have chaired an internal organization or agency advisory group.
 E. I have delivered technical information or assistance at external conferences, seminars, and/or workshops.
 F. None of the above.
15. Select all applicable activities from the following list that you have regularly performed and which demonstrate your skill in developing and enhancing working partnerships and resolving issues.
 A. Communicate project objectives, goals, and status with immediate supervisor.
 B. Use effective verbal and non-verbal communication.
 C. Generate alternative solutions or strategies to address problems/issues.
 D. Promote open communication channels to be an effective team player.
 E. Brief immediate supervisor on issues/problems encountered during delivery of training course.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.
16. From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience working with others to achieve team goals.
 A. I have coordinated assignments for project team members based on factors such as project interests, strengths, and competing workloads.
 B. I have coordinated with other team members in preparing communication materials for assigned projects.
 C. I have promoted cooperation among project team members with varying perspectives and competing priorities.
 D. I have volunteered for assignments during team meetings.
 E. None of the above.
17. Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected