Position Title
Volunteer Force (DOD Detail)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
DODVolunteerForce-2025 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, August 8, 2025 to Saturday, August 1, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Are you currently employed by a Federal Agency within the Department of Defense in a non-military position? 

Please note, this detail opportunity is open to current Department of Defense employees only.  You must upload a copy of your official SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action with your application package to verify your eligibility for consideration. 
 A. Yes
 B. No
Federal Job Information
1. Please select the DOD sub-agency/ sub-component you work for?
--Select-- 
--Select--
Department of the Army
Department of the Navy
Department of the Air Force
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA)
Defense Acquisition University (DAU)
Defense Commissary Agency (DeCA)
Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA)
Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA)
Defense Counterintelligence Security Agency (DCSA)
Defense Finance and Accounting Services (DFAS)
Defense Human Resources Activity (DHRA)
Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA)
Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA)
Defense Legal Services Agency (DLSA)
Defense Logistics Agency (DLA)
Defense Media Activity (DMA)
Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency (DPAA)
Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA)
Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC)
Defense Technology Security Agency (DTSA)
Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA)
Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA)
DOD Test Resource Management Agency (TRMC)
Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS)
Missile Defense Agency
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA)
National Reconnaissance Office (NRO)
National Security Agency/Central Security Services (NSA)/(CSS)
Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation (OLDCC)
Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense (OIG)
Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD)
Pentagon Force Protection Agency (PFPA)
Washington Headquarters Service (WHS)
Other DOD sub-agency or sub-component not listed, please indicate in the question below.
I am not currently employed by DOD.
2. If you selected Other DOD sub-agency or sub-component, please indicate below:
3. What is your federal agency work email address?
4. What is your federal agency work mobile phone number?
5. What is your federal agency office work phone number?
6. What is your current duty station location (City, State)?
7. What is your current position's OPM occupational series (ex. 0343 - Management and Program Analysis)?
8. What is your current pay grade?
--Select-- 
--Select--
GS-1
GS-2
GS-3
GS-4
GS-5
GS-6
GS-7
GS-8
GS-9
GS-10
GS-11
GS-12
GS-13
GS-14
GS-15
Non-GS Pay System (please indicate your pay band in the question below)
9. If you selected Non-GS Pay System, please indicate your current pay band.
10. What is the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) Status of your current position?
 A. Exempt
 B. Non-Exempt
 C. Don't Know
11. Are you a supervisor?
 A. Yes
 B. No
12. Are you a Law Enforcement Officer?
 A. Yes
 B. No
13. What is your supervisor's name at your current federal agency?
14. What is your current supervisor's federal email address?
15. What is your current supervisor's federal work phone number?
16. Have you served with your current federal agency for more than 90 days and are no longer in a probationary period?
 A. Yes
 B. No
17.

Do you have a current government issued travel card (preferred)?

 A. Yes
 B. No
18. Do you possess a current background investigation?
 A. Yes
 B. No
19. Do you possess a current HSPD-12 compliant identification badge (e.g., PIV, Military ID, CAC)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
20. Please select all languages you are conversationally proficient in other than English.
 A. American Sign Language
 B. Arabic
 C. Bengali
 D. Creole (Haitian)
 E. Dari
 F. French
 G. German
 H. Greek
 I. Hindi
 J. Hungarian
 K. Indonesian
 L. Italian
 M. Japanese
 N. Korean
 O. Mandarin
 P. Pashtu
 Q. Persian
 R. Polish
 S. Portuguese
 T. Russian
 U. Spanish
 V. Ukrainian
 W. Urdu
 X. Other - please respond below.
 Y. I'm not proficient any other languages.
21. If you select other on language proficiency, please list the languages below.
22. In certain situations it is necessary for same-sex volunteers to serve specific groups; please confirm your sex below:
 A. Male
 B. Female
Deployment Information
1. When are you available to deploy?
 
2. What is your emergency contact's name?
3. What is your emergency contact's phone number?
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected