Position Title
Lead Accountant
Agency
Program Support Center
Announcement Number
HHS-PSC-DE-25-12806951 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, September 29, 2025 to Friday, October 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the Department of Health and Human Services? If yes, confirm:
• You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• Your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy AND
• Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and the most current Performance Appraisal. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center page (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ctap/).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and a copy of the most current Performance Appraisal.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ictap/)
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a military spouse?

Military Spouse Appointing Authority applies to the following categories of military spouses.

Spouse of a member of the armed forces on active duty
Spouses of service members who incurred a 100% disability because of the service member's active duty service, and
Spouses of service members killed while on active duty.
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you an active registrant of the Health and Human Services Reemployment Priority Placement Program?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


8.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


9.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


10.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


11.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


12.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Basic Requirement - Education (IOR)
Do you meet the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) for the 0510 Accountant series?
You must possess one of the items listed below (A or B):

A. A degree in Accounting or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting (which may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law).

OR

B. A combination of education and experience with at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge.
My background also includes one of the following:
(1) 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality--including up to 6 hours of business law;
(2) a certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination;
OR
(3) completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement, provided that (a) I have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that I have a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in answer A; and (c) except for literal non-conformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, my education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal service that includes all of the following:
Leading enterprise-level financial management operations across multiple programs and initiatives to ensure accuracy, efficiency, and compliance.
Overseeing financial systems and reporting processes by validating journal entries, reviewing trial balances, and resolving discrepancies.
Advising senior executives on financial management policies and issues.
Implementing financial management policies and procedures to strengthen compliance and improve resource use.
Leading process improvement initiatives by standardizing procedures and streamlining workflows.
Coordinating audit readiness efforts with auditors and external stakeholders on financial issues.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙