Position Title
Housekeeping Aid - Environmental Services Technician--Recruit/Relo Incentive May Be Authorized
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSY-12807790-26-SW Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 2, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Please select the work schedule you are applying for (one or both).
 A. Full Time
 B. Part Time


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


5.
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Name and Contact Information
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you confirm that the above information is clearly stated for each work entry you are claiming experience for, and that each entry is full time unless otherwise annotated with part-time hours?
 Yes
 No


6.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your answers are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of your knowledge or skills as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Please select only one letter for each item.


1.
(Screen-Out) Reliability and Dependability: From the descriptions listed below, select the response that best describes your ability to perform reliably and dependably as a Housekeeping Aid - Environmental Services Technician, based on your past work and/or school performance. Please select only one answer.
In making your response, consider that this job includes such tasks as cleaning hospital patients' rooms, removing soiled linen and potentially contaminated items, cleaning and sanitizing restrooms, vacuuming and mopping floors, and emptying trash cans.
 I have obtained a high school diploma/GED, completed a lengthy training program, performed substantial volunteer work, or have other life experience (e.g., armed forces) that demonstrates my ability to perform the work of a Housekeeping Aid - Environmental Services Technician dependably. I have never had an unexcused absence from school or work. I have received recognition and/or positive performance evaluations for my work and/or attendance, or I have been selected for special job(s) because I am reliable.
 I am able to provide continuous and dependable service performing work of a Housekeeping Aid - Environmental Services Technician. My past performance in school, in the community, armed forces, and/or part-time jobs has been above average. I have performed above average on school or work projects that were assigned to me, and have had very few unexcused absences from school or work.
 My past performance in school, in the community, armed forces, and/or part-time jobs has been average, and I have the potential to perform work of a Housekeeping Aid - Environmental Services Technician dependably. I am generally reliable and responsible, but have occasionally had unexcused absences from school or work.
 I have not held steady employment or had problems at school because I have had trouble in the past with arriving on time or problems with attendance.


VETERANS PREFERENCE DOCUMENTATION REMINDER - You must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veterans preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicants claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙