Position Title
CONTRACT SPECIALIST
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDA-25-12820356-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, October 22, 2025 to Monday, November 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Condition of employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 315. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


3.
Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with DoD Directive 5500-7-R. Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to employment and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Contract Specialist position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not meet the education requirements above. However, I am either (A) a current civilian employee in DoD who occupied GS-1102 positions or contracting positions with authority to award or administer contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold in an Executive Department on or before September 30, 2000; OR (B) I am a current military member who occupied a similar occupational specialty to the GS (or equivalent)-1102 on or before September 30, 2000.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1. Performs as the focal point for all contractual actions and phases of the program including initial planning, requirements definition, cost and price analysis, negotiation, and administration. 2. Managing programs involving cradle-to-grave contracting which includes planning and initiation, solicitation, negotiation, award, administration, and termination of highly complex, long-term (approximately 15 years), multi-million-dollar programs for the Integrated Program Office (IPO) for the New York District’s U.S. Merchant Marine Academy mission. 3. Exercising full breadth of authority through participation in acquisition planning, contract formation, partnering, administration, and resolution of disputes and claims by means of contracting officer decisions and contract modifications. 4. As Senior Contract Specialist, makes decisions and recommendations to PDT and district leadership to clarify and resolve controversial workload problems (e.g., conflicts in procurement method, evaluation factors, appointment of source selection evaluators).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙