Position Title
Bowling Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25698 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, July 17, 2025 to Sunday, July 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
Completion of the attached questionnaire is required.
1. I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 A. Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 B. No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
3. I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. Are you a current CNIC NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Bowling Manager, NF-1101-03 position.  Your resume and the responses to this assessment questionnaire will be evaluated to determine if you are among the best qualified for referral to the selection panel. Failure to respond to any question or to include any required document with your application package may result in an ineligible rating. Select the answers that best reflects your level of experience or describes your expertise.
1. This position requires experience in planning, promoting and organizing a year-round Regional Recreation Program. The Regional Program includes three (3) Bowling Centers and a variety of bowling programs, and two (2) Theaters and movie scheduling. The military community served includes Active Duty, DoD civilians, Retirees, and their family members. Your resume must reflect how your background meets the experience requirements for the Bowling Manager, NF-01101-03 position. If you are qualifying based on education, you must include your transcripts with your application package. Have you attached your transcripts to your application package, and/or included relevant qualifying experience in your resume?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Select the statement that best describes your experience in personnel management; conducting interviews, training, discipline, performance appraisals, awards, and ensuring all internal policies and procedures within the organization are consistent with EEO policies.
 A. I have at least one (1) year of experience in this area.
 B. I have at least six (6) months of experience in this area.
 C. I do not have any experience in this area.
 D. I have more than two (2) years of experience in this area.
3. Select the statement that best describes your work experience demonstrating the ability to use basic computer software such as Outlook, Microsoft Word, Excel, and Power Point.
 A. I have more than two (2) years of experience in demonstrating the ability to use basic computer software.
 B. I have at least one (1) year of experience in demonstrating the ability to use basic computer software.
 C. I have at least six (6) months of experience in demonstrating the ability to use basic computer software.
 D. I do not have any knowledge or experience in this area.
4. Select the statement that best describes your general knowledge of budget preparation and accounting principles.
 A. I have no knowledge or experience in this area.
 B. I have at least six (6) months of knowledge and experience in this area.
 C. I have at least one (1) year of knowledge and experience in this area.
 D. I have more than two (2) years of knowledge and experience in this area.
5. This position requires possessing experience with planning, promoting, and managing special events and other bowling related programs. The ability to coordinate necessary resources for the procurement of supplies, equipment, and resale merchandise. Select the statement that best describes your experience.
 A. I do not have any experience in this area.
 B. I have at least six (6) months of experience in this area.
 C. I have more than two (2) years of experience in this area.
 D. I have at least one (1) year of experience in this area.
6. Do you have the ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing?
 A. No
 B. Yes
7. This position requires working knowledge of the field of recreation acitivities, food and beverage management, and facility maintenance. The ability to evaluate and make decisions involving the administrative aspects of these activities. Select the statement that best describes your knowledge and experience.
 A. I have at least six (6) months of knowledge and experience in this area.
 B. I do not have any knowledge or experience in this area.
 C. I have at least one (1) year of knowledge and experience in this area.
 D. I have more than two (2) years of knowledge and experience in this area.
8. As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this statement; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to answer the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 A. Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected