Position Title
Assistant Maintenance Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12819872 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 17, 2025 to Tuesday, October 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Maintenance Coordinator position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.



1.
A certificate or license in at least one of the major trades (electrical, plumbing, carpentry, etc) is strongly preferred, but may be substituted by a minimum of 2 years of general trades experience with a minimum of one year of documented specialized training and/or experience in a combination of trades listed above.
 I have documentation of my certificate or license in one of the trades listed above and have provided a copy of it.
 I have documentation of my certificate o or license in one of the trades listed above and will provide a copy of the document If interviewed
 I have documented a minimum of 2 years of general trades experience, with a minimum of one year of documented specialized training and/or experience in a combination of trades listed above.
 I do not have documentation that meets any of the above requirements


2.
A minimum of two years supervisory experience is required.
 I have documented a minimum of two years of supervisory experience
 I have less than the minimum of two years of supervisory experience needed


3.
This position requires the incumbent to have and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes I have a current valid state driver’s license
 No I do not have a valid state driver’s license


4.
This position is subject to an irregular tour to meet time constraints and deadlines to include night and week-end work
 Yes I am able to meet the above requirements
 No I am not able to meet the above requirements.


5.
What is your experience in the ability to appraise various program elements, evaluation and effect/recommended improvement to best achieve goals.

 5+ years of documented experience
 4 to 5 years of documented experience
 3 to 5 years of documented experience
 2 to 3 years of documented experience
 Less than two years or no documented experience


6.
What is your experience in managing a warehouse including receiving and inventory control of supplies and equipment?
 5+ years of documented experience
 3 to 5 years of documented experience
 2 to 3 years of documented experience
 Less than two years or no documented experience


7.
What is your experience in managing the logistical set up of an event?

 5+ years of documented experience
 3 to 5 years of documented experience
 2 to 3 years of documented experience
 Less than two years or no documented experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙