Position Title
Prosthetic Representative
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12825617-26-SN Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, October 28, 2025 to Tuesday, November 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on resume and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references as appropriate. Later steps in selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s):


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Candidates will not be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who are not proficient in written and spoken English. Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and/or Education Basic Requirements: GS-5 Level Experience - Do you possess one or more of the minimally qualifying requirements below?

(1) Experience: One year of creditable experience that demonstrates: Knowledge of basic anatomy and medical terminology; knowledge of accounting methods; ability to research, analyze, comprehend, and apply decisions; basic knowledge of inventory management procedures; ability to use computer software packages for word processing, spreadsheet development, and database management; and ability to work independently and as a member of a team;
OR
(2) Education: A bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours could include but is not limited to any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree;
OR
(3) Experience/Education Combination: Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.
 Yes
 No


3.
Minimum Requirement for GS-7: In addition to meeting the basic requirements listed above you must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level, directly related to the position to be filled.

The GS-7 Prosthetic Representative (Developmental Level) must also demonstrate the following knowledge, skills and abilities:
(1) Ability to understand and apply processes, procedures, regulations, and laws as it applies to purchasing and the provision of prosthetic items/services.
(2) Ability to coordinate multiple requests for durable medical equipment (DME), including repairs, services, and benefits.
(3) Ability to act as a liaison with and work effectively with health care providers, patients, caregivers and vendors to ensure that the most appropriate device and services are received timely.
(4) Ability to monitor contractors and vendors for compliance with contract requirements.

Do you have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-5 level and demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


4.
Minimum Requirement for GS-9: In addition to meeting the basic requirements listed above you must meet one of the following education or experience requirements:

(1) Experience: Must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level, directly related to the position to be filled;
OR
(2) Education: Education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or Master's or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours may include, but is not limited to, any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree.

The GS-9 Prosthetic Representative (Developmental Level) must also demonstrate the following knowledge, skills and abilities:
(1) Knowledge of methods to identify trends and causation factors sufficient to analyze prepared data and gather information to inform and advise management.
(2) Ability to organize, prioritize, and monitor actions to ensure timeliness.
(3) Ability to understand and articulate the benefits program options available. This includes communicating with patients, caregivers, health care providers and vendors.
(4) Ability to apply and educate others about national, VISN, and facility directives, policies, procedures and regulations.
(5) Ability to work effectively with a clinical team and provide recommendations for prosthetic devices.

Do you meet the education and knowledge, skills and abilities requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


5.
Minimum Requirement for GS-11: In addition to meeting the basic requirements listed above you must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level, directly related to the position to be filled.

The GS-11 Prosthetic Representative must also demonstrate the following knowledge, skills and abilities:
(1) Ability to work independently to set priorities; delegate tasks; meet multiple deadlines; analyze organizational problems; and develop and implement effective solutions to optimize quality, efficiency, performance, and productivity.
(2) Ability to work with a team, to provide technical guidance, plan, organize, and coordinate activities to effectively complete job duties of assignment, such as distributing workload; and monitoring the accuracy, status and progress of work.
(3) Ability to communicate tactfully and effectively, both orally and in writing, to meet program objectives. This may include preparing reports in various formats and presenting data to various organizational levels.
(4) Ability to assist in staff development, outcome management, and strategic planning.
(5) Ability to act as liaison between staff to resolve informal employee complaints and concerns.
(6) Knowledge of rehabilitative treatment goals and strategies that are unique to patients in specialized programs and knowledge of those specific program requirements.

Do you meet the knowledge, skills and abilities requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder - Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:* Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)* Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


SF-50 Reminder - If you are a current or former Federal employee, please provide your most recent SF-50 Personnel Action Form.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙