Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (Quality Management)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12825861-26-KG Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 5, 2025 to Wednesday, November 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


Quality Management Technologist (QM). The technologist] performs daily inspection of radiographic units to ensure proper mechanical functionality.
The technologist ensures daily functionality of CR readers.
The technologist provides in-service training to technologists and other personnel involved in the operation and maintenance, CR readers, DR panels and other PACS type of operations maintained within the department.
The technologist coordinates scheduling of preventative maintenance for modalities either through biomedical engineering or local contractor service.
The technologist works with physicists to ensure compliance with radiation safety program and for acceptance testing of all new installations of equipment.
The technologist maintains accurate records, as required by management, for quality assurance analysis, quality control, performance improvement, and other related purposes.

Incumbent is the designated radiology technologist responsible for managing the Radiologic Quality Assurance (QA) program. Incumbent ensures that Quality Assurance (QA) guidelines, regulations, and standards set by external auditing bodies (e.g., JCAHO, OSHA, VA standards, etc.) are followed.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship. Be a citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified candidates in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g.)

Are you a citizen of the United States?

 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency. DRTs must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and7407(d).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


3.
Certification Requirement:  Are you certified in Radiological Technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT).  All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R).
 
Do you possess American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) Certification?
 
Note: A copy of Certification is required with application package.
 Yes
 No


4.
Education Requirement: Applicant must have successfully completed of a full-time training course of at least 24 months duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from schools accredited by the Department of Education (DOE).
 
Do you meet this Education Requirement (Transcripts are recommended with application package)?
 
Note: Assignment to the clinical program director requires meeting JRCERT minimum educational standards as noted in the assignment description.
 Yes
 No


5.
 GS-11 Grade Level Required Experience: Quality Management Technologist. This position has full oversight responsibility of departmental Quality Management program and may also include oversight of a departmental Quality Improvement (QI) program. That may include directing the work of lower graded staff. The technologist performs daily inspection[s] of radiographic units to ensure proper mechanical functionality and ensures daily functionality of CR readers. The technologist provides in-service training for technologists and other personnel involved in the operation and maintenance of CR readers, DR panels, and other PACS type of operations maintained within the department. The technologist] coordinates scheduling of preventative maintenance for modalities either through biomedical engineering or local contractor service. The technologist works with physicists to ensure compliance with radiation safety program and for acceptance testing of all new installations of equipment. The technologist maintains accurate records, as required by management, for quality assurance analysis, quality control, performance improvement, and other related purposes.
 
The candidate must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs:
i. Knowledge of all Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), and VA standards regarding radiology quality assurance and other technical functions.
ii. [Ability] to train staff on quality assurance and control.
iii. Knowledge of inventory management systems.
iv. Knowledge of x-ray and other image-producing machinery in order to design and operate a complete radiology quality assurance program.
v. Knowledge of physics and [physical properties of CR and DR panels and image production to diagnose difficulties in x-ray machinery and post processing equipment.
 
Do you have at least one (1) year of experience at the next lower grade level of GS-10 as described above?
 Yes
 No


6.
Verification Statement: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No



RESUME REMINDER - You must provide a complete application package which includes:

Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title and Grade Level (for Federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Veteran's Preference does NOT apply to this occupation for FY 2026.  OCHCO Bulletin Subject: Annual Determination of Staffing Shortages, dated September 25, 2025. Although hybrid title 38 occupations follow title 5 Veterans' preference rules, as required by the Merit Systems Protection Board (Graves v. VA, 117 M.S.P.R. 697 (2012)), 38 U.S.C. § 7412 waives the requirement to apply Veterans' preference to external applicants for appointments made during the fiscal year to hybrid title 38 occupations among those reported to have the largest staffing shortages.
Proof of current certification, licensure or registration 
Your full resume may be uploaded without page limitation into the 'Other' document uploaded field.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙