Position Title
Occupational Therapist (Clinical Specialist) - VISN 23 Home and Community Based Services Program IDT
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSY-12808259-25-HMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 3, 2025 to Tuesday, October 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


3.
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Name and Contact Information
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you confirm that the above information is clearly stated for each work entry you are claiming experience for, and that each entry is full time unless otherwise annotated with part-time hours?
 Yes
 No


If applying as an internal or status candidate with current or former Federal Service, you must provide a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action", showing the highest grade or promotion potential held. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one year time-in-grade.


All qualifying experience you possess must be clearly described in your application package. We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Failure to demonstrate your experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) in your application may result in disqualification. It is strongly recommended that you write to each KSA to demonstrate how you have gained each one in your application package or on a supplemental document. Please see the announcement for KSA requirements.



Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you meet one of the following requirements? A copy of your transcripts must be submitted with your application:

(a) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist. NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.; OR
(b) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in an occupational therapy related field. NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.; OR
(c) Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.


Individuals must be a graduate of a degree program in occupational therapy approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations. This is inclusive of an internship (supervised fieldwork experience required by the educational institution). ACOTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. Degree programs may be verified by contacting the American Occupational Therapy Association website or at their office address: American Occupational Therapy Association, P.O. Box 31220, Bethesda, MD 20824-1220. Graduates of foreign occupational therapy programs meet the educational requirements for this occupation if they have a current, full, active and unrestricted state license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess a current NBCOT certification as an Occupational Therapist? Applicants must include a copy of their certification.

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you hold a full, current, and unrestricted license or certification to practice occupation therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the Unites States or in the District of Columbia? Applicants must include a copy of their license.

 Yes
 No


4.
Please select the response below that most accurately describes you for the GS-13 grade of this position:

In applying for the GS-13, I have completed one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level and directly related to the position being filled and demonstrate all the KSAs below:
Knowledge of contemporary occupational therapy across multiple areas of practice.
Ability to provide clinical guidance in the advanced practice area to other OT practitioners.
Knowledge of advanced specialized evaluation, interventions and services to independently develop treatment strategies for area of specialization.
Skill in developing protocols and procedures for intervention programs based on current occupational therapy theory, recent research, and practice.
Ability to provide consultation to other health care practitioners and outside groups about occupational therapy scope of practice for area of specialization.
Ability to implement, revise/update evidence based occupational therapy services and programming in area of specialization.
 I meet the requirements listed above.
 I do not meet the requirements listed above.


5.
In addition to meeting the minimum experience requirement, you must possess one of the following:
A minimum of 2,000 hours of clinical practice directly in the advanced practice area. This time must be within the past five years;
Certification in an area recognized by the AOTA;
Completion of a fellowship/residency or advanced degree program in the advanced practice area; or
An additional advanced degree in a related field.

Please select which of the above you possess and provide evidence (transcripts, certification, ect) with your application.
 A minimum of 2,000 hours of clinical practice directly in the advanced practice area. This time must be within the past five years.
 Certification in an area recognized by the AOTA.
 Completion of a fellowship/residency or advanced degree program in the advanced practice area.
 An additional advanced degree in a related field.
 I do not possess any of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙