Position Title
Occupational Therapist (Certified Hand Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12805769-26-TE Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, October 16, 2025 to Monday, October 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


5.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Please select the most appropriate response(s) regarding meeting the basic requirements for the GS-631 Occupational Therapist series.


Basic Requirements: To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:


1.
Basic Education and/or Experience Qualification. Please select a response that is most applicable to you down below: 

Note: Graduates of foreign occupational therapy programs meet the requirements in the education and/or experience paragraph if they have a current, full, active and unrestricted license referred to in the state licensure paragraph. 

Please submit documentation within your application package.
 Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. OR
 Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. OR
 Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
 I do not meet the education, experience, and licensure requirement listed above in responses A, B or C.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Basic Certification Qualification: Candidates must possess a current NBCOT certification as an OT.

Do you possess a current NBCOT certification as an OT? 
 

 Yes
 No


3.
Basic State Licensure Qualification: Candidates must possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license, to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.

Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license, to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


4.
Occupational Therapist (Certified Hand Specialist), GS-13 Grade Experience Requirement. 

Education, Experience, and Licensure. Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level and directly related to the position being filled and one of the following:
A minimum of 2,000 hours of clinical practice directly in the advanced practice area (hand therapy). This time must be within the past five years;
Certification in an area recognized by the AOTA (hand therapy);
Completion of a fellowship/residency or advanced degree program in the advanced practice area (hand therapy); or
An additional advanced degree in a related field.

Do you meet the education, experience, and licensure requirements listed above? If so, please select one of the responses that is most applicable to you from one of the requirements listed above. 

Note: Please ensure how you meet the specialized experience is clearly described in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 I have completed one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level and directly related to the position being filled and possess a minimum of 2,000 hours of clinical practice directly in the advanced practice area (hand therapy). This time must be within the past five years.
 I have completed one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level and directly related to the position being filled and have a certification in an area recognized by the AOTA (hand therapy).
 I have completed one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level and directly related to the position being filled and completed a fellowship/residency or advanced degree program in the advanced practice area (hand therapy);
 I have completed one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level and directly related to the position being filled and have an additional advanced degree in a related field.
 I do not meet the education, experience, and licensure requirement listed above in responses A, B, C or D.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Occupational Therapist (Certified Hand Specialist), GS-13 Knowledge, Skills, and Assessments Requirement. 

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of contemporary occupational therapy across multiple areas of practice.
Ability to provide clinical guidance in the advanced practice (hand therapy) area to other OT practitioners.
Knowledge of advanced specialized evaluation, interventions and services to independently develop treatment strategies for area of specialization (hand therapy).
Skill in developing protocols and procedures for intervention programs based on current occupational therapy theory, recent research, and practice.
Ability to provide consultation to other health care practitioners and outside groups about occupational therapy scope of practice for area of specialization (hand therapy).
Ability to implement, revise/update evidence based occupational therapy services and programming in area of specialization (hand therapy). 

Can you demonstrate all of the knowledge, skills, and assessments listed above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙