Position Title
Operations Research Analyst
Agency
Air Force Civilian Career Training
Announcement Number
K-26-DHA-12796275-GAA Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 to Friday, September 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.
2. US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
7
9
3. Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Gunter AFB, AL
 B. Maxwell AFB, AL
 C. Davis Monthan AFB, AZ
 D. Edwards AFB, CA
 E. Los Angeles, CA
 F. Travis AFB, CA
 G. Vandenberg AFB, CA
 H. Buckley AFB, CO
 I. Cheyenne Mountain AFB, CO
 J. Peterson AFB, CO
 K. Schriever AFB, CO
 L. Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, DC
 M. Cape Canaveral, FL
 N. Eglin AFB, FL
 O. MacDill AFB, FL
 P. Patrick AFB, FL
 Q. Tyndall AFB, FL
 R. Robins AFB, GA
 S. Barksdale AFB, LA
 T. Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD
 U. Andrews AFB, MD
 V. White Oak, MD
 W. Hanscom AFB, MA
 X. Offutt AFB, NE
 Y. Nellis AFB, NV
 Z. Holloman AFB, NM
 AA. Kirtland AFB, NM
 AB. Rome, NY
 AC. Heath, OH
 AD. Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
 AE. Tinker AFB, OK
 AF. Arnold AFB, TN
 AG. Dyess AFB, TX
 AH. Fort Sam Houston, TX
 AI. Goodfellow AFB, TX
 AJ. Lackland AFB, TX
 AK. Randolph AFB, TX
 AL. Hill AFB, UT
 AM. Dahlgren, VA
 AN. Langley AFB, VA
 AO. Pentagon, Arlington, VA
 AP. Fairchild AFB, WA
 AQ. Joint Base Lewis-McChord, WA
 AR. Warren AFB, WY
4. I am a current permanent or former federal employee with less than 52 weeks break in the competitive service and I am applying for this position to be considered as a:
 A. Promotion Candidate - I am eligible for promotion consideration since I have held the next lower grade for at least 52 weeks on a permanent basis in the competitive service or I am a current FWS employee. NOTE: You must submit a copy of SF-50(s) that demonstrate you meet the one year time-in-grade requirement if applicable (i.e., Promotion, Within Grade/Rate Increase).
 B. Repromotion Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive repromotion consideration since I have held a higher grade on a permanent basis in the competitive federal service or a permanent position with the same or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 C. Non-competitive Reassignment Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive reassignment consideration since I currently hold a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis held on a permanent basis.
 D. Non-competitive Voluntary Change to Lower Grade (CLG) Candidate - I am eligible and requesting consideration for a Voluntary CLG since I have held, or currently hold a permanent competitive service position at a higher grade in the federal service. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your current permanent position.
 E. I am not eligible for any of the above considerations.
5. I am a current or prior military member of the Armed Forces that is retiring or has been retired less than 180 days. Hiring (appointments or transfers) of retiring or retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in any DoD Component during the 180 days immediately following retirement may only be made IAW DoDI 1402.01 and may require a waiver for appointment prior to the 180 days from official military retirement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.
1. I am able and willing to submit to pre-employment drug testing (urinalysis) as a condition of employment. This position has been identified as a Test Designated Position (TDP) and I am able and willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and if requested, to submit to random drug testing (urinalysis) on a recurring basis. Further, I am able and willing to sign a statement acknowledging the position occupied is identified as a TDP and understand I am subject to random drug testing as a condition of employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. This position requires a Top Secret security clearance. I am able and willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and review of my driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. I am able and willing to submit to an extensive background investigation to verify my suitability for employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. This position requires a Secret security clearance. I am able and willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and review of my driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. This position requires a Special Sensitive security clearance with access to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). I am able and willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and review of my driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. This position requires a Mobility Agreement.  Mobility programs enhance career progression or mission effectiveness.  Air Force often needs to assign civilian employees to meet critical manning needs of key managerial positions or to provide employees with exposure to a variety of work experiences.  You will be required to sign and abide by the provision of the Mobility Agreement as a condition of employment and refusal to sign will result in denial of appointment.  I am able and willing to accept a position requiring my mobility and I am able and willing to sign a Mobility Agreement as a stipulation of employment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. I have or will have a bachelor's degree or a master's degree in a field that equips me to perform the work of the position, AND have documented Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) at the undergraduate or graduate level as follows:  Grade Point Average- 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded on my official transcript or as computed based on 4 years of education or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of my curriculum.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected