Position Title
Recreation Aid - Portside Cinema
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN 25-12752658 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, October 10, 2025 to Friday, October 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Recreation Aid, NF-0189-01 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Do you have work experience in a recreational related activity such as a recreation center providing games and indoor and outdoor activities to patrons?
 I have more than one (1) year work experience in a recreation related activity or facility.
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year work experience in a recreation related activity or facility.
 I have less than six (6) months work experience in a recreation related activity or facility.
 I have no previous work experience in a recreational activity or facility.


2.
Do you have any general custodial experience such as cleaning and maintaining recreational equipment and recreational areas?
 I have more than one (1) year of general custodial experience such as cleaning and maintaining recreational equipment and recreational areas.
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year of general custodial experience such as cleaning and maintaining recreational equipment and recreational areas.
 I have less than six (6) months of general custodial experience such as cleaning and maintaining recreational equipment and recreational areas.
 I have no general custodial experience.


3.
Do you have general clerical experience such as maintaining routine reports?
 I have more than one (1) year of general clerical experience such as maintaining routine reports.
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year of general clerical experience such as maintaining routine reports
 I have less than six (6) months of general clerical experience such as maintaining routine reports
 I have no experience in general clerical duties.


4.
Are the answers you've provided in this questionnaire supported by your resume?

 Yes, all the answers I have provided in this questionnaire regarding my experience level are reflected in my resume.
 No, my resume does not support the experience levels I've provided in this questionnaire. I understand that by not supporting ALL answers by my resume, my application will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙