Position Title
Recreation Aide
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
JAX-25-12803145 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, September 18, 2025 to Thursday, October 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 A. Yes
 B. No
5. I am willing and able to work a Flexible work schedule consisting of days, nights, weekends and holidays. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty; hours are from 0-40 hours per week.
 A. Yes
 B. No
6. Do you currently reside within a 50-mile radius of NAS Jacksonville (32212)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
7. If you do not currently reside within the local commuting area, are you an active-duty spouse PCSing to the area within 30 days and submitting all required documents to claim Military Spouse Preference?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. I am able to stand, walk, stoop, sit and lift routinely as this position requires.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Recreation Aid, NF-0189-01 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1. Are you currently C.A.R.E (Controlling Alcohol Risks Effectively) trained, hold an Emergency First Responder (EFR) or CPR First Aid certification, and hold a current Food Handler certification, upon being placed in the position? 

OR

Are you able to obtain these trainings/certifications within 90 days of being placed in the position?
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. How many years of experience do you have with providing customer service e.g. providing timely and attentive service to internal and external customers, clear communication skills, product knowledge, and positive attitude)?
 A. I have no experience as described above.
 B. I have less than six (6) months of experience as described above.
 C. I have between six (6) months and one (1) year of experience as described above.
 D. I have more than one (1) year of experience as described above.
3. How many years of experience do you have in a recreational related activity such as a recreation center providing games and indoor and outdoor activities to patrons?
 A. I have no previous work experience in a recreational activity or facility.
 B. I have less than six (6) months work experience in a recreation related activity or facility.
 C. I have six (6) months to one (1) year work experience in a recreation related activity or facility.
 D. I have more than one (1) year work experience in a recreation related activity or facility.
4. Do you have any general custodial experience such as cleaning and maintaining recreational equipment and recreational areas?
 A. I have no general custodial experience.
 B. I have less than six (6) months of general custodial experience such as cleaning and maintaining recreational equipment and recreational areas.
 C. I have six (6) months to one (1) year of general custodial experience such as cleaning and maintaining recreational equipment and recreational areas.
 D. I have more than one (1) year of general custodial experience such as cleaning and maintaining recreational equipment and recreational areas.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected