Position Title
General Attorney
Agency
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Announcement Number
DH-12767161-25-KK Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, July 21, 2025 to Friday, August 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1. Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2. Do you have a Bar Membership Card or other documentary evidence?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.
2. Would you accept a term appointment?
 A. Yes
 B. No
Conditions of Employment
1. Are you currently a retired federal General Attorney? (0905 Series) 

If eligible, submit a copy of your Retirement Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your status.

- Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect Tenure 1 or 2.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Are you a former ICE 0905 General Attorney?
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. If you responded Yes to the previous question, please provide the grade level.
4. If you are not a former ICE employee, are you a former federal government general attorney?
5. If you responded Yes to the previous question, please provide the following:
Agency name
Position title/series/grade
Assessment 1
The following questions will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
1. Which of the following statements best describes your education as it pertains to the basic requirements for the General Attorney position?
 A. I am a graduate from an accredited law school with a Juris Doctorate (J.D.) degree.
 B. I do not possess the education described above.
2. If you choose response A in the previous question, please provide the name of the school, type of degree, and the year the degree was obtained. If you selected response B for this question, please put "Not Applicable."

3. Are you an active member and in good standing of the bar in a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?

 A. Yes
 B. No
Applicants must have demonstrated knowledge and specialized experience practicing law which is in or directly related to the line of the work of this position and which has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Select the response that best reflects your experience for each question. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.
4. Which of the following statements best describes your experience for the GS-14 grade level?

 A. I have one year of specialized experience post bar admission equivalent to the GS-13 grade level.
 B. I do not have the specialized experience described above.
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected