Position Title
Health Technician (Spinal Cord Injury)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12821407-26-NDS Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 3, 2025 to Monday, November 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


5.
Clinic Selection
 A. Inpatient - Work schedules: Day shift: 7:00am - 3:30pm or 7:00am - 7:30pm with rotating evening shift 3:00pm - 11:30pm, weekends, and holidays Night shift: 7:00pm - 7:30am or 11:00pm - 7:30am with rotating evening shift 3:00pm - 11:30pm, weekends, and holidays
 B. Outpatient - Work schedule: Monday - Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.


Assessment 1
Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. All applicants must meet one of the following. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.

** Please Note: The Human Resources Specialist will not make assumptions regarding your qualifications and/or experience so please be sure you provide a detailed resume along with other supporting documentation (such as copy of transcripts, copy of licensure, etc.) as proof you meet all the basic qualifications listed.


1.
Individual Occupation Requirements: In order to qualify for this job series, candidates must possess either the educational requirement or specialized experience. Please select which best qualifies you.
 I possess an undergraduate degree or a graduate degree with major study or at least 24 semester hours in subjects directly related to the position.
 Experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled.
 I do not have either the education or the specialized experience requirement related to this job series.


2.

Qualification Requirements for GS-5: Please select the response below to indicate how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.

 A. Specialized Experience. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-4 grade level that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Examples of specialized experience include: Practical knowledge and skill of therapeutic, rehabilitative and preventative care for patients in various stages of dependency. Knowledge and skill of basic nursing practices sufficient to resolve a range of problems with responsibility for carrying out assignments to completion
 B. I have successfully completed 4 years of education above the high school level. This education was obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. I understand that I must submit transcripts to document this education (unofficial are sufficient) and that failure to do so will result in a not qualified rating.
 C. I have a combination of specialized experience and education. Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours is creditable. I understand that the experience must be fully detailed in my resume and that I must submit transcripts (unofficial are sufficient) and that failure to do so will result in a not qualified rating.
 D. I do not have the required specialized experience or education to qualify.


3.

Qualification Requirements for GS-6: Please select the response below to indicate how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.

 Specialized Experience. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Examples of specialized experience include: Advanced knowledge of spinal cord injury in the following areas is required to participate in the multidisciplinary team provision of healthcare and to provide proper and accurate education programs to patient and family. Knowledge of and skill to implement aseptic technique as indicated: knowledge of infectious disease guidelines relevant to his/her duties to prevent the introduction of or cross-contamination with pathogens; knowledge of and skill in applying proper body mechanics to avoid injury to self or others.
 I do not have the required specialized experience or education to qualify.


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙