Position Title
Policy Analyst
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12782751-OPSSPSD-IMP-25 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, August 18, 2025 to Wednesday, August 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) because you are a current DHS employee who has received an official notice stating that your position is no longer needed, or that you will be separated by reduction in force (RIF) and meet all of the following criteria?

Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606

For more information about CTAP eligibility and required documentation, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
2. Do you wish to be considered as a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who meets one of the following criteria?
 In a permanent position that is in the competitive service (see block #34 on your SF-50 for your position type)
OR
With an excepted service agency but can be hired into the competitive service because you meet the criteria of a DHS Interchange Agreement. Additional information about current Interchange Agreements can be found here. 
Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. Do you wish to be considered as a current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employee who meets one of the following criteria?I have held, or currently hold either: 
 A permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised.
OR
An appointment with an excepted service agency but can be hired into the competitive service because I meet the criteria of a DHS Interchange Agreement, with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised. Additional information about current Interchange Agreements can be found here. 
Note: If your position referenced above is not on the GS pay scale, your pay must be at or above the representative rate (step 04) of the full performance level of this position. 

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block 34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 A. Yes
 B. No
4. The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is the mechanism DHS uses to give reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees separated by reduction-in-force (RIF), or fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former DHS employee?  If so, have you met all of the following criteria?
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent, and
Able to satisfactorily perform the duties of the position upon entry and be well-qualified per 5 CFR 330.606.
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
My SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing my rating score as at least fully successful or equivalent.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Preferences
1. Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
--Select-- 
--Select--
13
14
2. I acknowledge the following conditions if I choose to submit my resume through the USAJOBS Resume Builder:
I understand that resumes submitted through USAJOBS Resume Builder are converted to a PDF format when they are transmitted to USA Staffing from the USAJOBS applicant interface and additional spaces/page gaps are added to resumes during the Resume Builder conversion process;
Based on the above conditions, I understand that USCIS strongly encourages me to save my resume to a PDF document and upload the PDF document instead of submitting my resume created through Resume Builder;
I understand that USCIS' human resources will only review the first 2 pages of my resume to determine eligibility/qualifications for this position;
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I have met this requirement for consideration.

(Note: Additional guidance regarding this requirement is available within the How to Submit Your Resume section of the USCIS Resume Requirement FAQs.)
 A. Yes
 B. No
3. There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 D. No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.
4. I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. (limit 1,200 characters)
2. In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. (limit 1,200 characters)
3. How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. (limit 1,200 characters)
4. How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. (limit 1,200 characters)
5. I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 A. Yes
 B. No
Assessment 1
1. GS-13 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
2. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
3. GS-14 - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 B. I do not meet the requirement as described above.
4. You must provide the position title(s) and dates of employment referenced in your resume that demonstrates the experience related to your response.
5. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-13. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-12 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
6. This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-14. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent?
 A. Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 B. No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level or equivalent.
 C. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level or equivalent.
 D. Not applicable. I am applying as an individual eligible under a special hiring authority that affords me consideration regardless of TIG (i.e., Disability, Peace Corps, etc.).
 E. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 weeks (i.e., Interchange Agreement).
 F. Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am a VEOA applicant and NOT a current Federal employee.
The following section contains a multitude of question types. If you see a radio button, you can only select one response. If you see a checkbox, you may select all that apply.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
7. Have you analyzed the impact of immigration-related policies and practices on all levels of government (i.e., national, state, and local)?
 A. Yes
 B. No
8. Which strategies have you used to analyze work processes to ensure compliance with privacy-related laws, policies, and guidance?
 A. I organized a team to assist with brainstorming and identifying inefficiencies in a work process.
 B. I analyzed data (e.g., statistics, trends) to determine processes that required improvement.
 C. I created a flow chart to identify each step in the analysis process and possible outcomes.
 D. I interviewed subject matter experts to identify issues and concerns in the process.
 E. I developed performance improvement indicators and units of measurement.
 F. I delegated the analytical process to subject matter experts in that particular work function.
 G. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
9. Have you analyzed the impact of immigration-related policies and practices on future workload?
 A. Yes
 B. No
10. I evaluated the immigration benefits process to identify and correct patterns of error (e.g., compliance with law/procedure, adjudication errors).
 A. True
 B. False
11. I have evaluated information (e.g. data, reports) to identify process improvements adopted across an organization.
 A. True
 B. False
12. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience applying rules and policies related to Immigration benefit applications?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to immigration benefit rules and policies.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to immigration benefit rules and policies, but have not applied them on the job.
 C. I explained basic eligibility requirements and provisions of law to applicants and interested parties.
 D. I reviewed applications, petitions, supporting documentation, official files, related policy/procedures, and precedent decisions to determine prima facie eligibility under the Immigration Nationality Act.
 E. I provided non-routine information and assistance on general aspects of immigration law to applicants, petitioners or legal representatives in response to telephone, walk-in, congressional or other written inquiries.
 F. I adjudicated applications and petitions determined to be routine or less complex than those referred to Immigration Services Officers or are readily approvable.
13. Select the written documents you have drafted pertaining to immigration law.
 A. Explanation of rules or regulations
 B. Response to applicants regarding pending status inquiries
 C. Reports regarding compliance
 D. Requests for documentation from applicants
 E. College papers pertaining to immigration law
 F. Legal research projects
 G. None of the above
14. I have written position papers concerning the impact of new or proposed legislation on existing immigration benefits programs to inform senior leadership within my organization.
 A. True
 B. False
15. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using writing style guides (e.g., Associated Press (AP) Stylebook, Government Printing Office (GPO) Style guide)?
 A. I have no experience, education, or training using writing style guides.
 B. I completed education and/or training on writing style guides, but do not have professional experience using them.
 C. I independently applied writing style guides and standards to professional documents.
 D. I identified limitations and gaps of existing style guides and recommended solutions.
 E. I designed a writing style guide that was applied across my organization to mitigate limitations and gaps.
16. Which documents have you independently written?
 A. Incident reports
 B. Interview reports
 C. Report of investigations
 D. Investigative policy
 E. Investigative training
 F. Official memoranda
 G. Briefing papers for upper management
 H. None of the above
17. Choose the option that best describes your experience producing succinct and clear written information for program members, senior officials, and organizational leadership.
 A. I have applied numerous techniques to provide succinct and clear information regarding issues related to national security.
 B. I have directed teams or groups to provide succinct and clear information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 C. I have performed nuanced research to develop way to proffer information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 D. I have spearheaded mission specific teams in identifying definitive information to be presented to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
18. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and/or delivering training in written communication?
 A. I have no experience, education, or training related to developing/delivering training in written communication.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to developing/delivering written communication training, but do not have professional experience
 C. I drafted outlines and tailored content of training curriculum based on customer needs.
 D. I presented written communication training using existing curriculum and materials
 E. I independently created written communication training curriculum and materials.
19. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers?
 A. I have not had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents.
 B. I have had education and/or training in developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 C. I have developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers under close supervision to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 D. I have independently developed and formatted written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
 E. I have supervised others in, or been regularly consulted as an expert in, developing and formatting written information in clear and concise communication documents for decision makers.
20. Select the communication materials you have independently designed.
 A. Press releases
 B. Opinion-Editorials (Op-Eds) for executive-level officials
 C. An organization's website landing page
 D. Speeches for executive-level officials
 E. Social media content (e.g., Twitter, Facebook, Instagram)
 F. Video scripts
 G. None of the above
21. Select the statement that describes your highest level of experience communicating information concerning programs and policy procedures.
 A. Coordinated differing perspectives on complex information with management officials to establish objectives, goals, priorities, and deadlines on programs and policy procedures.
 B. Developed and evaluated concurrent projects on program and policy procedures.
 C. Recommended short-and long-term determinations impacting program and policy procedures.
 D. None of the above
22. Select the tasks you have performed related to conducting security checks for immigration benefit applications.
 A. I used government systems to initiate security checks in accordance with all applicable laws and policies.
 B. I ensured that all records and property were maintained and destroyed in accordance with security requirements.
 C. I identified files with national security threats and public safety issues and prioritized them for security checks.
 D. I conducted file searches for aliases.
 E. I conducted file searches for criminal behavior.
 F. I conducted file searches for dates of birth.
 G. None of the above.
23. Which activities have you performed related to legislation, regulations, policy and procedures?
 A. Reviewed legislation, regulations, policies, and procedures to identify and compile the applicable information.
 B. Determined compliance/non-compliance with the applicable legislation, regulations, policy and procedure and informed others for decision-making.
 C. Reviewed new or changes to legislation, regulations, policies, and procedures to identify organizational impacts.
 D. Explained interpretations of the legislation, regulations, policy and procedures to others.
 E. Provided recommendations for a course of action as a result of the relevant legislation, regulations, policy and procedures.
 F. None of the above.
24. Select the Federal laws, regulations and polices related to national security and personnel security that you have applied to complete your work assignments.
 A. Executive Order 10450
 B. Executive Order 12958
 C. Executive Order 12968
 D. 5 CFR 731: Suitability
 E. 5 CFR 732: National Security Positions
 F. The Privacy Act
 G. The Freedom of Information Act
 H. Department or Agency Policy and Directives
 I. Interagency Security Committee (ISC) standards, policies, and best practices
 J. None of the above
25. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience conducting program evaluations to address organizational needs and build a portfolio of evidence?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education related to conducting program evaluation.
 B. I have had education and/or training related to conducting program evaluation but do not have professional experience.
 C. I have experience working on a program evaluation team, but not as a team lead. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have conducted program evaluations independently or as a lead. I have done this without extensive review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I directed program evaluation activities to address organizational needs and build a portfolio of evidence. I am considered an expert in performing this task and am the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
26. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience responding to congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries/complaints (e.g., request for guidance on policy application, explanation of adjudication result)?
 A. I have no experience, training, or education responding to these types of inquiries/complaints.
 B. I completed education and/or training related to responding to these types of inquiries/complaints, but do not have professional experience.
 C. I drafted portions of responses for higher level review.
 D. I independently wrote responses or testimony to respond to inquiries/complaints.
 E. I was responsible for representing the agency in the overall response to inquiries/complaints.
27. Indicate your level of experience briefing Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 A. I have applied numerous techniques to provide briefing to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 B. I have performed nuanced research to develop imaginative ways to proffer information to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 C. I have cultivated custom presentation techniques in the analysis of information and the briefing Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 D. I have spearheaded mission specific teams in identifying definitive information to be presented to Senior Leadership regarding issues related to national security.
 E. I do not meet any of the options provided.
28. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience solving problems (e.g., navigating deviations from standard work processes)?
 A. I asked for guidance from others (e.g., peers, supervisors, trainers) to solve work problems.
 B. I referenced established training documents and operating procedures to solve work problems.
 C. I collaborated with peers to develop alternative options to solve a problem.
 D. I trained others on how to resolve problems (e.g., adapt to deviations) in their work.
 E. I completed education and/or training in problem solving but don't have professional experience.
 F. None of the above.
29. Select the steps you have taken to resolve conflict in the workplace.
 A. Clarify what the disagreement is about.
 B. Find a commonality to all sides as a starting point for a shared outcome.
 C. Actively listen and brainstorm together.
 D. Recognize the barriers to the common goal.
 E. Identify solutions all sides can agree to.
 F. None of the above
30. Select the ways in which you develop and maintain collaborative working relationships with others to resolve conflicts in a positive manner.
 A. Find commonality to all sides as a starting point for shared outcome.
 B. Actively listen and brainstorm together.
 C. Be respectful to differing opinions.
 D. Recognize the barriers to the common goal.
 E. Identify solutions all sides can agree to.
 F. None of the above.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
31. Have you researched statutes and precedents to determine the most applicable strategy for presenting legal information?
 A. Yes
 B. No
32. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in solving complex problems in the workplace.
 A. I have solved difficult problems in the workplace by surrounding myself with others who are strong in problem solving and learning from them.
 B. I am positive in my approach and reframe the problem or issue to come up with new solutions.
 C. I have solved complex problems in the workplace by focusing on details, thinking analytically, and offering practical solutions that evaluate the potential costs, resources, and barriers to a successful solution.
 D. I have identified problems in the workplace but have no experience solving complex problems in the workplace.
33. Which statement best describes your highest level of experience monitoring financial system transactions day-to-day?
 A. I monitored transactions to ensure they were in compliance with the spending plan and ceiling authorities.
 B. I identified errors and took corrective action.
 C. I reviewed other's monitoring of transactions.
 D. I completed education and/or training related to financial system transactions, but do not have professional experience.
 E. I have no experience, training, or education related to financial system transactions.
34. If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 A. Yes
 B. No
 C. I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 D. Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
35. Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No
 Terms of Use
 FOIA
Privacy & Cookies
 USAJOBS.gov
 OPM
 USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
×
Terms & Conditions

This online application, powered by USA Staffing®, a U. S. Government information system, is to be used only in the manner authorized. You are authorized to use this system’s menus, controls, and features to do any and all of the following as a job applicant or potential job applicant, subject to any limitations that may be imposed, such as due dates, or any requirement that a particular assessment be completed personally by the job applicant:

Prepare, complete, and submit application packages, questionnaires, and other assessments.
View, print, modify, and save questionnaires and assessment responses and documents.
View the status of application packages you have in progress and correspondence addressed to you.

You are prohibited from accessing or attempting to access this system or records it contains to access information about anyone who has not given you permission to do so, because the data and documents on this system include Federal records that contain sensitive information protected by various Federal statutes, including the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552a.

You are also prohibited from attempting to access, view, upload, change, or delete information on this system in any manner not consistent with and supported by its own menu options and controls, even if that information pertains to you. You are not permitted to modify the system, deny access to the system, accrue system resources for unauthorized use, or otherwise misuse this system, and if you do so, or try to do so, you may face criminal, civil, or administrative penalties.

If you use this system, that will be construed to mean you understand and agree to abide by these terms and constitutes unconditional consent to review, monitor, record, audit, and take action by all authorized government and law enforcement personnel.

Close
×
Your Session is About to Expire!
Your session will expire due to inactivity in 60 seconds.
Unsaved data may be lost if you allow this session to expire.
Warning! The announcement has now closed.
Failure to continue will prevent you from completing and submitting the application.
Click the Stay Connected button below to continue your session.
LogoutStay Connected